OMB APPROVAL
OMB Number:
3235-0045
Estimated average burden
hours per response............38

Required fields are shown with yellow backgrounds and asterisks.

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
File No.* SR - 2021 - * 005
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
Amendment No. (req. for Amendments *)
Form 19b-4

Page 1 of * 115

Filing by The Depository Trust Company
Pursuant to Rule 19b-4 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Initial *

Withdrawal

Amendment *

Section 19(b)(2) *

Section 19(b)(3)(A) *

Section 19(b)(3)(B) *

Rule
Extension of Time Period
for Commission Action *

Pilot

19b-4(f)(1)

Date Expires *

19b-4(f)(5)

19b-4(f)(3)

19b-4(f)(6)

Notice of proposed change pursuant to the Payment, Clearing, and Settlement Act of 2010

Section 806(e)(1) *

Security-Based Swap Submission pursuant
to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

Section 806(e)(2) *

Exhibit 2 Sent As Paper Document

19b-4(f)(4)

19b-4(f)(2)

Section 3C(b)(2) *

Exhibit 3 Sent As Paper Document

Description
Provide a brief description of the action (limit 250 characters, required when Initial is checked *).

Modify the DTC Settlement Service Guide and the Form of DTC Pledgee’s Agreement

Contact Information
Provide the name, telephone number, and e-mail address of the person on the staff of the self-regulatory organization
prepared to respond to questions and comments on the action.

First Name * John

Last Name * Petrofsky

Title *

Director and Assistant General Counsel

E-mail *

JPetrofsky@dtcc.com

Telephone * (813) 470-2115

Fax

Signature
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
has duly caused this filing to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
(Title *)

Managing Director and Deputy General Counsel

Date 06/15/2021
By

Brandon Becker
(Name *)

NOTE: Clicking the button at right will digitally sign and lock
this form. A digital signature is as legally binding as a physical
signature, and once signed, this form cannot be changed.

bbecker@dtcc.com

Required fields are shown with yellow backgrounds and asterisks.

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
For complete Form 19b-4 instructions please refer to the EFFS website.

Form 19b-4 Information *
Add

Remove

View

Exhibit 1 - Notice of Proposed Rule Change *

Add

Remove

View

Exhibit 1A- Notice of Proposed Rule
Change, Security-Based Swap Submission,
or Advance Notice by Clearing Agencies *
Add

Remove

View

Exhibit 2 - Notices, Written Comments,
Transcripts, Other Communications
Add

Remove

View

The self-regulatory organization must provide all required information, presented in a
clear and comprehensible manner, to enable the public to provide meaningful
comment on the proposal and for the Commission to determine whether the proposal
is consistent with the Act and applicable rules and regulations under the Act.

The Notice section of this Form 19b-4 must comply with the guidelines for publication
in the Federal Register as well as any requirements for electronic filing as published
by the Commission (if applicable). The Office of the Federal Register (OFR) offers
guidance on Federal Register publication requirements in the Federal Register
Document Drafting Handbook, October 1998 Revision. For example, all references to
the federal securities laws must include the corresponding cite to the United States
Code in a footnote. All references to SEC rules must include the corresponding cite
to the Code of Federal Regulations in a footnote. All references to Securities
Exchange Act Releases must include the release number, release date, Federal
Register cite, Federal Register date, and corresponding file number (e.g., SR-[SRO]
-xx-xx). A material failure to comply with these guidelines will result in the proposed
rule change being deemed not properly filed. See also Rule 0-3 under the Act (17
CFR 240.0-3)
The Notice section of this Form 19b-4 must comply with the guidelines for publication
in the Federal Register as well as any requirements for electronic filing as published
by the Commission (if applicable). The Office of the Federal Register (OFR) offers
guidance on Federal Register publication requirements in the Federal Register
Document Drafting Handbook, October 1998 Revision. For example, all references to
the federal securities laws must include the corresponding cite to the United States
Code in a footnote. All references to SEC rules must include the corresponding cite
to the Code of Federal Regulations in a footnote. All references to Securities
Exchange Act Releases must include the release number, release date, Federal
Register cite, Federal Register date, and corresponding file number (e.g., SR-[SRO]
-xx-xx). A material failure to comply with these guidelines will result in the proposed
rule change, security-based swap submission, or advance notice being deemed not
properly filed. See also Rule 0-3 under the Act (17 CFR 240.0-3)
Copies of notices, written comments, transcripts, other communications. If such
documents cannot be filed electronically in accordance with Instruction F, they shall be
filed in accordance with Instruction G.

Exhibit Sent As Paper Document

Exhibit 3 - Form, Report, or Questionnaire
Add

Remove

View

Copies of any form, report, or questionnaire that the self-regulatory organization
proposes to use to help implement or operate the proposed rule change, or that is
referred to by the proposed rule change.

Exhibit Sent As Paper Document

Exhibit 4 - Marked Copies
Add

Remove

View

Exhibit 5 - Proposed Rule Text
Add

Remove

View

Partial Amendment
Add

Remove

View

The full text shall be marked, in any convenient manner, to indicate additions to and
deletions from the immediately preceding filing. The purpose of Exhibit 4 is to permit
the staff to identify immediately the changes made from the text of the rule with which
it has been working.
The self-regulatory organization may choose to attach as Exhibit 5 proposed changes
to rule text in place of providing it in Item I and which may otherwise be more easily
readable if provided separately from Form 19b-4. Exhibit 5 shall be considered part
of the proposed rule change.

If the self-regulatory organization is amending only part of the text of a lengthy
proposed rule change, it may, with the Commission's permission, file only those
portions of the text of the proposed rule change in which changes are being made if
the filing (i.e. partial amendment) is clearly understandable on its face. Such partial
amendment shall be clearly identified and marked to show deletions and additions.

Page 3 of 115
1.

Text of the Proposed Rule Change

(a)
The proposed rule change 1 of The Depository Trust Company (“DTC”) would
modify the DTC Settlement Service Guide (“Settlement Guide”) 2 and the form of DTC
Pledgee’s Agreement (“Pledgee’s Agreement”), 3 as described below. Specifically, the proposed
rule change would revise text in the Settlement Guide and Pledgee’s Agreement to clarify the
text with respect to the processing of book entries of Pledge-related 4 activity at DTC. The
1

Capitalized terms not defined herein are defined in the Rules, By-Laws and Organization
Certificate of DTC (“Rules”) available at
http://www.dtcc.com/~/media/Files/Downloads/legal/rules/dtc_rules.pdf.

2

Available at https://www.dtcc.com/legal/rules-and-procedures. The Settlement Guide
constitutes Procedures of DTC relating to its Settlement services. Pursuant to the Rules,
the term “Procedures” means the Procedures, service guides, and regulations of DTC
adopted pursuant to Rule 27, as amended from time to time. See Rule 1, Section 1, infra
note 3. DTC’s Procedures are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“Commission”). They are binding on DTC and each Participant in the same manner as
they are bound by the Rules. See Rule 27, infra note 3.

3

Available at https://www.dtcc.com/legal/rules-and-procedures. Pursuant to Rule 2,
Section 3, an entity that uses DTC’s Pledge services must enter into an agreement with
DTC satisfactory to DTC. See Rule 2, Section 3, supra note 1. In this regard, DTC
requires a Pledgee that is not a Participant to sign a Pledgee’s Agreement. Participants
enter into a Participant’s Agreement that binds them to the Rules and Procedures
(including, but not limited to, those related to Pledge activity), and are not required by
DTC to enter into a separate Pledgee’s Agreement. See also Rule 2, Section 1, supra note
1 (providing terms of the Participant’s Agreement).

4

Pursuant to Rule 1, the defined term “Pledge” in the Rules means, inter alia, “creating or
providing for a security interest in a Certificated or Uncertificated Security, a Securities
Account or a Securities [sic] Entitlement in accordance with the NYUCC.” See Rule 1,
supra note 1. Pursuant to Rule 1, the term “NYUCC” means the Uniform Commercial
Code of New York, as amended from time to time. See Rule 1, supra note 1. Pursuant to
Rule 1, the term “Certificated Security” has the meaning given to the term “certificated
security” in Section 8-102 of the NYUCC. See Rule 1, supra note 1. Pursuant to Section
8-102 of the NYUCC, “certificated security” means a security that is represented by a
certificate. See NYUCC 8-102. Pursuant to Rule 1, the term “Uncertificated Security”
has the meaning given to the term “uncertificated security” in Section 8-102 of the
NYUCC. See Rule 1, supra note 1. Pursuant to Section 8-102 of the NYUCC,
“uncertificated security” means a security that is not represented by a certificate.
Pursuant to Rule 1, the term “Securities Account” (1) as used with respect to a Participant
or Pledgee, means an account maintained by DTC for the Participant or Pledgee to which
Securities transactions of the Participant or Pledgee effected through the facilities of DTC
are debited and credited in the manner specified in the Rules and Procedures; and (2) as
used with respect to DTC, means an internal account of DTC to which Securities
transactions are debited and credited to DTC. See Rule 1, supra note 1. Pursuant to Rule

Page 4 of 115
proposed revisions would reflect in the text of the Settlement Guide and Pledgee’s Agreement
that Pledged Securities remain credited to a Pledgor’s Account unless the Pledgee makes a
demand for the Pledged Securities, as described below. In this regard, the respective texts of the
Settlement Guide and the Pledgee’s Agreement currently indicate that Pledged Securities are
credited to a Pledgee’s Account. As discussed below, the proposed rule change relates to a
technical aspect of the operational processing of Pledge transactions and would not impact the
rights or obligations of a Participant or Pledgee. The text of the proposed changes to the rules of
DTC are annexed hereto as Exhibit 5.

2.

(b)

Not applicable.

(c)

Not applicable.

Procedures of the Clearing Agency

The proposed rule change was approved by a Deputy General Counsel of DTC on June
15, 2021.
3.

Clearing Agency’s Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the
Proposed Rule Change
(a)

Purpose

The proposed rule change of DTC would modify the Settlement Guide and the form of
Pledgee’s Agreement, as described below. Specifically, the proposed rule change would revise
text in the Settlement Guide and Pledgee’s Agreement to clarify the text with respect to the
processing of book entries of Pledge-related 5 activity at DTC. The proposed revisions would
reflect in the text of the Settlement Guide and Pledgee’s Agreement that Pledged Securities
remain credited to a Pledgor’s Account unless the Pledgee makes a demand for the Pledged
1, the term “Security Entitlement” has the meaning given to the term “security
entitlement” in Section 8-102 of the NYUCC. The interest of a Participant or Pledgee in
a Security credited to its Account is a Security Entitlement. See id. Pursuant to
Section 8-102 of the NYUCC, “security entitlement” means the rights and property
interest of an entitlement holder with respect to a financial asset specified in Part 5. See
NYUCC § 8-102. NYUCC § 8-501(b) provides that a person acquires a “security
entitlement” when, inter alia, a securities intermediary indicates by book entry that a
financial asset has been credited to the person’s securities account. The absence of the
crediting of a financial asset to an account of a Pledgee and the fact that an account of a
Pledgee is not a securities account under Article 8 mean that the Pledgee has not acquired
a security entitlement under Article 8. See NYUCC § 8-501(b). Pursuant to Section 8102, “entitlement holder” means a person identified in the records of a securities
intermediary as the person having a security entitlement against the securities
intermediary. If a person acquires a security entitlement by virtue of Section 8-501(b)(2)
or (3), that person is the entitlement holder. See NYUCC § 8-102.
5

See supra note 4.

Page 5 of 115
Securities, as described below. In this regard, the respective texts of the Settlement Guide and
the Pledgee’s Agreement currently indicate that Pledged Securities are credited to a Pledgee’s
Account. As discussed below, the proposed rule change relates to a technical aspect of the
operational processing of Pledge transactions and would not impact the rights or obligations of a
Participant or Pledgee.
The following discussion is provided by DTC and includes, but is not limited to, its own
analysis of applicable state law provisions that DTC believes are relevant for purposes of
describing the proposed rule change.
Background
Eligibility for Pledge Services
The Pledge services of DTC are available to banks, trust companies, broker-dealers and
other Persons approved by DTC, which have entered into an agreement with DTC that is
satisfactory to it, for the purpose of effecting a Pledge of Deposited Securities to such banks,
trust companies, broker-dealers and other Persons. 6 A Pledgee may but need not be a
Participant. A Pledgee is required by DTC to sign a Pledgee’s Agreement unless it is also a
Participant. Participants are not required to sign a separate Pledgee’s Agreement to use DTC’s
pledge services because the Participant’s Agreement binds the Participant to DTC’s Rules and
Procedures, including those relating to Pledge-related activity. Only a Pledgee that is a
Participant may receive a Pledge Versus Payment. 7
Book Entry of Pledges and Legal Effect
As indicated above, the definition of a “Security Entitlement” in the DTC Rules
incorporates the definition of such term in Article 8 of the NYUCC and notes that “[t]he interest
of a Participant or Pledgee in a Security credited to its Account is a Security Entitlement.”
However, as more fully discussed below, while the Settlement Guide and the Pledgee’s
Agreement make reference to the movement of Securities to a Pledgee’s Account, from an
operational standpoint, DTC does not in fact credit a Security to an Account of a Pledgee; what
the Pledgee receives is not a Security Entitlement. The Securities remain credited to the
Pledgor’s account until the Pledgee releases the Pledged Securities or makes a demand for the
Pledged Securities, as discussed below. Rather, a notation is placed on the Account of the
Pledgor that the Securities are Pledged to the Pledgee, and the Securities remain in Pledged
status until the Pledgee instructs otherwise.
As described below, this bookkeeping method does not adversely impact the rights of the
Pledgee in that the Pledgee maintains Control over the Pledged Securities, and the Pledged

6

See Rule 2, Section 3, supra note 1.

7

See id.

Page 6 of 115
Securities cannot be used by the Pledgor for any other transaction unless the Pledgee releases the
Securities from the Pledged status through an instruction to DTC.
DTC’s Description of Pledge
The Settlement Guide states that:
“[w]hen pledging securities to a pledgee, the pledgor’s position is moved from the
pledgor’s general free account to the pledgee’s account which prevents the pledged position from
being used to complete other transactions. Likewise, the release of a pledged position would
move the pledged position back to the pledgor’s general free account where it would then be
available to complete other transactions.” 8
Paragraph 2 of DTC’s form of Pledgee’s Agreement provides that:
“[s]o long as Pledgee shall maintain a Depository Trust account, Depository Trust, upon
the pledge to Pledgee of securities held by Depository Trust for the account of any depositor in
Depository Trust, will make appropriate entries on its books transferring the securities from the
account of such depositor to the account of Pledgee and shall maintain such securities in the
account of Pledgee until instructed by Pledgee to release such securities to the account of the
pledgor, to deliver such securities to the order of Pledgee or to transfer such securities on the
books of Depository Trust to the account of a depositor in Depository Trust other than the
pledgor.”
The descriptions of DTC’s Pledge arrangements in the (1) Settlement Guide, with respect
to the text shown above, and as more fully described below, and (2) form of Pledgee’s
Agreement are imprecise because in practice DTC does not move or transfer the securities from
an account of the Pledgor to an account of the Pledgee, as more fully described below.
The definition of a “Security Entitlement” in the DTC Rules incorporates the definition
of such term in Article 8 of the NYUCC and notes that “[t]he interest of a Participant or Pledgee
in a Security credited to its Account is a Security Entitlement.”
However, since DTC is not in fact crediting a Security to an Account of a Pledgee, what
the Pledgee receives is not a Security Entitlement.
The definition of an “Entitlement Holder” in the DTC Rules incorporates the definition of
such term in Article 8 of the NYUCC (as to which see below) and notes that “[a] Participant or
Pledgee is an Entitlement Holder with respect to a Security credited to its Account”.
However, since DTC is not in fact crediting a Security to an Account of a Pledgee, the
Pledgee is not an Entitlement Holder. However, the Pledgee maintains Control of the Pledged
Securities as more fully described below. A key to a Pledgee exercising its Control is its ability

8

See Settlement Guide, supra note 2 at 3-4.

Page 7 of 115
to instruct through DTC an Entitlement Order for the delivery, Pledge release or withdrawal of a
security.
Entitlement Order
The definition of an “Entitlement Order” in the Rules incorporates the definition of such
term in Article 8 of the NYUCC that “[a]n instruction from a Participant or Pledgee to the
Corporation with respect to a Delivery, Pledge, Release or Withdrawal of a Security credited to a
Securities Account is an Entitlement Order”.
Note that the definition of an Entitlement Order does not require that the Security be
credited to a Securities Account of the instructor. The breadth of this definition allows permitted
entities, such as Pledgees, to issue Entitlement Orders to DTC in respect of Securities credited to
Securities Accounts belonging to others.
DTC Rule 9(B) 9 provides that:
“[i]f [DTC] receives an instruction from a Pledgee to effect a Delivery or Withdrawal of
Pledged Securities, such instruction shall have the effect of notifying [DTC] that the
Pledgee elects not to Release the Pledged Securities but, rather, to assert its Control over
the Pledged Securities by the transfer of a greater interest in the Pledged Securities to itself
or another Person. [DTC] shall accept such an instruction as a representation that the
Pledgee is acting in accordance with applicable law, rules or regulations, agreements or
any adjudication thereof.”
Under NYUCC Section 8-507(a), 10 a securities intermediary satisfies its duty to comply
with an Entitlement Order if it acts with respect to the duty as agreed upon by the entitlement
holder and the securities intermediary. DTC satisfies its duty to comply with an Entitlement Order
if it acts with respect to the duty as agreed upon by the Entitlement Holder and the Securities
Intermediary. In the case of Security Entitlements Pledged on the books of DTC, DTC satisfies its
duty to comply with an Entitlement Order by complying with the Entitlement Order of the Pledgee.
Control
Under NYUCC Section 9-106(a), 11 “[a] person has control of a certificated security,
uncertificated security, or security entitlement as provided in Section 8-106”. 12

9

See Rule 9(B), supra note 1.

10

NYUCC § 8-507(a).

11

See NYUCC § 9-106(a).

12

NYUCC § 8-106.

Page 8 of 115

if:

Under NYUCC Section 8-106(d), “[a] purchaser has “control” of a security entitlement
(1) the purchaser becomes the entitlement holder;

(2) the securities intermediary has agreed that it will comply with entitlement orders
originated by the purchaser without further consent by the entitlement holder; or
(3) another person has control of the security entitlement on behalf of the purchaser or,
having previously acquired control of the security entitlement, acknowledges that it has control
on behalf of the purchaser.”
Under NYUCC Section 1-102, 13 a purchaser is “a person that takes by purchase” with
“purchase” being defined as “taking by sale, lease, discount, negotiation, mortgage, pledge, lien,
security interest, issue or reissue, gift, or any other voluntary transaction creating an interest in
property”.
NYUCC Section 8-106(f) further provides that “[a] purchaser has “control” under
subsection (c)(2) or (d)(2) even if any duty of the issuer or the securities intermediary to comply
with instructions or entitlement orders originated by the purchaser is subject to any condition or
conditions (other than further consent by the registered owner or the entitlement holder).”
Official Comment 4 to NYUCC Section 8-106 14 notes that:
“[s]ubsection (d)(2) provides that a purchaser has control if the securities intermediary
has agreed to act on entitlement orders originated by the purchaser if no further consent by the
entitlement holder is required. Under subsection (d)(2), control may be achieved even though the
original entitlement holder remains as the entitlement holder.”
Example 6 of Official Comment 4 is illustrative:
“Able & Co., a securities dealer, grants Alpha Bank a security interest in a security
entitlement that includes 1000 shares of XYZ Co. stock that Able holds through an account with
Clearing Corporation. Able causes Clearing Corporation to transfer the shares into a pledge
account, pursuant to an agreement under which Able will continue to receive dividends,
distributions, and the like, but Alpha has the right to direct dispositions. As in Example 3, Alpha
has control of the 1000 shares under subsection (d)(2).”
In the case of security entitlements Pledged on the books of DTC, because DTC will
comply with the instructions of a Pledgee as provided for in Rule 9(B), 15 which is an agreement
between DTC and its Participants and Pledgees, a Pledgee has control of such security
13

See NYUCC § 1-102.

14

See NYUCC § 8-106.

15

See Rule 9(B), supra note 1.

Page 9 of 115
entitlements under NYUCC Section 8-106(d)(2) even when the Pledged Securities remain
credited to the account of the Pledgor.
DTC’s Pledge arrangements operate pursuant to the DTC Rules and the NYUCC. When
Security Entitlements are Pledged to a Pledgee through the facilities of DTC, the Pledgee has a
security interest in such Pledged Security Entitlements. 16 A Pledgee has “control” under Articles
8 and 9 of the NYUCC and under the DTC Rules of any Security Entitlements Pledged to it
through the facilities of DTC, 17 and the Pledgee is empowered to issue Entitlement Orders 18 to
DTC to direct the release, delivery or withdrawal of any such Pledged Security Entitlements.
Example of a Pledge by a Participant to a Pledgee
When Security Entitlements credited to Participant A’s account at DTC are Pledged to
Pledgee B through the facilities of DTC, B has a security interest in such Pledged security
entitlements. 19
B does not itself have “security entitlements” to the underlying securities and B is not an
“entitlement holder” as such terms are defined in the NYUCC.
However, B as Pledgee would have “control” under Articles 8 and 9 of the NYUCC and
under the Rules of any Security Entitlements Pledged to it through the facilities of DTC, and B is
16

The interest transferred is, however, only a security interest if the Pledgor and Pledgee
have an agreement outside of DTC that constitutes a security agreement under applicable
law and as to which the other requirements for attachment and enforceability of a security
interest have been satisfied. The agreement is entered into by the parties outside of DTC,
and DTC does not have knowledge or information on the existence of such an agreement
between the parties.

17

The definition of “Control” in the Rules incorporates the definition of such term in
Article 8 of the NYUCC and notes that “[a] Pledgee has Control of Pledged Securities
until they are Delivered, Released or Withdrawn by the Pledgee.” See Rule 1, Section 1,
supra note 1.

18

The definition of an “Entitlement Order” in the Rules incorporates the definition of such
term in Section 8-102 of the NYUCC and notes that “[a]n instruction from a Participant
or Pledgee to the Corporation with respect to a Delivery, Pledge, Release or Withdrawal
of a Security credited to a Securities Account is an Entitlement Order”. As noted above,
pursuant to Section 8-102, “entitlement order” means a notification communicated to
a securities intermediary directing transfer or redemption of a financial asset to which
the entitlement holder has a security entitlement. See NYUCC 8-102.

19

As mentioned above, the interest transferred is, however, only a security interest if A and
B have an agreement outside of DTC that constitutes a security agreement under applicable
law and as to which the other requirements for attachment and enforceability of a security
interest have been satisfied.

Page 10 of 115
empowered to issue Entitlement Orders to DTC to direct the release, delivery or withdrawal of
any such Pledged Security Entitlements.
Proposed Rule Change
Proposed change to text of Settlement Guide
Pursuant to the proposed rule change, DTC would revise the text of the Settlement Guide
to reflect that Pledged Securities would not move to an Account of the Pledgee. As discussed
above, the movement of the securities is not required to effect a Pledge and does not impact the
rights of Pledgor or Pledgee under the Rules or the NYUCC. Rather Pledged Securities continue
to be credited to the Pledgor’s account, however with a system notation showing the status of the
position as Pledged by the Pledgor to the Pledgee. This status systemically prevents the Pledged
position from being used to complete other transactions, which is consistent with the Pledgee’s
Control over the Pledged Securities, as discussed above. Likewise, the release of a Pledged
position results in the removal of the notation of the Pledge status of the position and the position
would become available to the Pledgor to complete other transactions.
The changes to the Settlement Guide text are technical in nature, and while enhancing
clarity with respect to the book entries performed by DTC as they relate to Pledge activity, the
change would not impact the rights or obligations of Participants and Pledgees. In this regard,
the applicable sections of the Settlement Guide would be revised to (1) clarify the text with
respect operational aspect of book entries of Pledges, as discussed above, (2) make changes to
text for readability necessary in the context of the proposed clarification, and (3) revise text for
consistency related to the use of the defined terms, including, but not limited to, Delivery Versus
Payment, Pledge, Pledgee, Pledgor and Pledge Versus Payment, as follows: (underlined,
italicized text indicates additions; [bracketed, italicized] text indicates deletions):
(a) Text included in Item 3 (Collateral Loans) set forth under the heading “Settlement
Transactions” 20 would be revised as follows:
“The collateral loan service allows a Participant (the [pledgor] Pledgor) to [pledge]
Pledge securities as collateral for a loan or for other purposes and also request the
release of [pledged] Pledged securities. This service allows such [pledges] Pledges
and [pledge] Pledge releases to be made free, meaning that the money component of
the transaction is settled outside of the depository, or valued, meaning that the money
component of the transaction is settled through DTC as a debit/credit to the
[pledgor’s] Pledgor’s and [pledgee’s] Pledgee’s DTC money settlement account.
When [pledging] Pledging securities to a [pledgee] Pledgee, the [pledgor’s]
Pledgor’s position [is moved from the Pledgor’s general free account to the
Pledgee’s account] continues to be credited to the Pledgor’s account, however with a
system notation showing the status of the position as Pledged by the Pledgor to the
Pledgee. This status systemically [which] prevents the [pledged] Pledged position
from being used to complete other transactions. Likewise, the release of a [pledged]
Pledged position [would move the pledged position back to the] results in the removal
20

See Settlement Guide, supra note 2 at 3-4.

Page 11 of 115
of the notation of the Pledge status of the position and the position would become
[pledgor’s general free account where it would then be] available to the Pledgor to
complete other transactions.”
(b) Text included under the heading “About the Product” that appears under the heading
“Collateral Loan Program” 21 would be revised as follows:
“The Collateral Loan Program allows you to [pledge] Pledge securities [from] held in
your general free account as collateral for a loan or for other purposes (such as Letters
of Credit) to a [pledgee] Pledgee participating in the program. You can also request
the [pledgee] Pledgee to release [pledge] Pledged securities [back to your general
free account]. These [pledges] Pledges and releases can be free (when money
proceeds are handled outside DTC) or valued (when money proceeds are applied as
debits and credits to the [pledgee’s] Pledgee’s and [pledgor’s] Pledgor’s money
settlement accounts). A Pledgee may, but need not be, a Participant. Only a Pledgee
which is a Participant may receive valued [pledges] Pledges.”
(c) Text included under the heading “Pledges to the Options Clearing Corporation” 22
would be revised as follows:
“A Participant writing an option on any options exchange may fully collateralize that
option by [pledging] Pledging the underlying securities by book-entry through DTC
to the Options Clearing Corporation (OCC). If the option is called (exercised), the
securities may be released and delivered to the holder of the call. If the option
contract is not exercised, OCC validates a release of the [pledged] Pledged securities
[, which are then returned to the Participant’s general free account].”
(d) Text included under the heading “Release of Deposits with Options Clearing
Corporation on Expired Options” would be revised as follows:
“OCC automatically releases securities deposited with it to cover margin
requirements on an option contract when the option contract expires. [The securities
are then allocated to your general free account.] Notification of the released
securities is received via the Collateral Loan Services functionality in the Settlement
User Interface or automated output.”
(e) In addition to any proposed changes to apply generally with respect to the Settlement
Guide text as described above, text included under the heading “Shared Control
Accounts” 23 would be revised to delete text shown below that states “Pledgee
accounts continue to be available at DTC.” This sentence was added to the text when
21

See Settlement Guide, supra note 2 at 8-9.

22

See Settlement Guide, supra note 2 at 10.

23

See Settlement Guide, supra note 2 at 15-16.

Page 12 of 115
Shared control account arrangements were added to the Procedures 24 to clarify that
the existing Pledge-related services would continue to be offered. As both the
original Pledge program and the Shared control account process are both established
programs, DTC believes the sentence is no longer necessary.
About the Product
Shared control accounts are available as an alternative to “agreement to pledge”
arrangements.
Background
When a Participant [pledges] Pledges securities to [the pledgee account of] a [pledge]
Pledgee at DTC (sometimes called a “hard pledge”), the securities are under the sole
control of the [pledgee] Pledgee. Only the [pledgee] Pledgee can redeliver or release
the securities. [Pledgee accounts continue to be available at DTC.]
Shared control accounts are available at DTC as an alternative to agreement to
[pledge] Pledge (sometimes called “agreement to deliver”) arrangements. A [pledgee]
Pledgee has control over securities delivered by a Participant to the Participant’s
shared control account at DTC since the [pledge] Pledgee has the ability to redeliver
the securities without further consent by the Participant. Until the [pledgee] Pledgee
redelivers the securities, the Participant has the flexibility to redeliver or make
substitutions for the securities without obtaining the [pledgee’s] Pledgee’s release of
the securities.
Shared controls are separately identified in DTC’s Reference Directory. Participants
interested in establishing a shared control account should contact their Relationship
Manager.
Procedures for DTC Shared Control Accounts
The following procedures are an addition to DTC’s Procedures for Pledgees.
1. Any Participant may establish a shared control account at DTC and may
designate any DTC [pledgee] Pledgee to be the [pledgee] Pledgee for that
shared control account. A Participant may deliver securities (or other financial
assets) by a [free pledge] Free Pledge from any of its DTC accounts (the
“original account”) to its shared control account in order to grant a security
interest or other interest in the securities to the [pledgee] Pledgee. The shared
control account is an account of the Participant and is identified with a
separate account number from any other account of the Participant. A

24

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 40191 (July 10, 1998), 63 FR 38444 (July 16,
1998) (SR-DTC-98-5).

Page 13 of 115
Participant may establish multiple shared control accounts, but only one
[pledge] Pledge can be designated for each shared control account.
2. Except as modified by these procedures, the operation of a shared control
account is identical to the operation of a DTC [pledge] Pledge [account] and
all DTC procedures applicable to [pledge] Pledge [accounts] are applicable to
shared control accounts. No [deliveries vs. payment] Deliveries Versus
Payment, [pledges vs. payment] Pledges Versus Payment, or physical deposits
can be made to a shared control account and no [deliveries vs. payment ]
Pledges Versus Payment, [pledges vs. payment] Pledges Versus Payment, or
physical withdrawals can be made from a shared control account. A
Participant should not deliver securities to another Participant’s shared control
account. In the instructions for a delivery of securities to a shared control
account, the mandatory hypothecation code field should be completed in the
same manner as it is for a Pledge made without the use of a shared control
[delivery to a pledge] account. The DTC fees and charges for a transaction
involving a shared control account are the same as the fees and charges for a
Pledge transaction that does not [involving] involve a [pledge] Pledge
account. The DTC monthly account usage charges applicable to a shared
control account are charged to the Participant. The DTC reports and
statements to the Participant and the [pledge] Pledge for a transaction
involving a shared control account are the same as the reports and statements
for a transaction involving a [pledge] Pledge that does not involve a shared
control account.
3. [As with a pledge account, voting]Voting rights on the securities credited to a
shared control account are assigned to the Participant. Cash dividend and
interest payments and other cash distributions on such securities are credited
to the original account. Distribution of securities for which the ex-distribution
date is on or prior to the payable date or in which the distribution is payable in
a different security are also credited to the original account. Any stock splits
or other distributions of the same securities for which the ex-distribution date
is after the payable date are credited to the shared control account.
4. The securities credited to a shared control account cannot be designated as or
included in the collateral for any obligation of the Participant or the [pledgee]
Pledgee to DTC. DTC has no lien or other interest in any securities credited to
a shared control account.”
Proposed change to text of the Pledgee’s Agreement
Pursuant to the proposed rule change, DTC would revise the text of the Pledgee’s
Agreement to reflect that Pledged Securities do not move to a Pledgee account. The change is
technical in nature and while enhancing clarity with respect to the book entries performed by
DTC as they relate to Pledge activity, the change would not impact the rights or obligations of
Participants and Pledgees pursuant to the Rules, Settlement Guide and/or the Pledgee’s
Agreement. In this regard, the applicable text of the Pledgee’s Agreement would be revised as

Page 14 of 115
follows: (underlined, italicized text indicates additions; [bracketed, italicized] text indicates
deletions):
“[s]o long as Pledgee shall maintain a Depository Trust account, Depository Trust,
upon the pledge to Pledgee of securities held by Depository Trust for the account of
any depositor in Depository Trust, will make appropriate entries on its books to
indicate the pledge of [transferring] the securities from [the account of] such
depositor to the [account of] Pledgee and shall maintain such securities [in the
account of] with a notation that the securities are pledged by the depositor to the
Pledgee until instructed by Pledgee to release such securities to the [account of the]
pledgor, to deliver such securities to the order of Pledgee or to transfer such securities
on the books of Depository Trust to the account of a depositor in Depository Trust
other than the pledgor.”
Effective Date
The proposed rule change would become effective upon filing.
(b)

Statutory Basis

Section 17A(b)(3)(F) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Act”), 25 requires that the
rules of the clearing agency be designed, inter alia, to promote the prompt and accurate clearance
and settlement of securities transactions. DTC believes that the proposed rule change is
consistent with this provision of the Act for the reasons described below.
As described above, the proposed rule change would allow Participants and Pledgees to
more readily understand the Rules and Procedures relating to the processing of book entries of
Pledges at DTC by (1) clarifying text to more accurately reflect the operational process of how
book entries of Pledges are entered on DTC’s system, and (2) making changes to text for
readability necessary in the context of the proposed clarification. By clarifying the Rules to
facilitate Participants’ and Pledgees’ ability to understand the operational processes relating to
Pledge services, and in particular with respect to how book-entries are made on DTC’s system
with respect to Pledge transactions, DTC believes that the proposed changes would facilitate
Participants’ and Pledgees’ ability to process Pledge transactions by enhancing their
understanding of how Securities subject to a Pledge transaction are credited to and held in a
Pledgee’s Account pending either their release from Pledge or the exercise of a demand for the
Pledged Securities by the Pledgee. Therefore, by facilitating the ability of Participants to
understand how book-entries of Securities movements are performed and how Pledged Securities
are held, DTC believes the proposed rule change would promote the prompt and accurate
clearance and settlement of securities transactions, consistent with Section 17A(b)(3)(f) of the
Act. 26

25

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(F).

26

Id.

Page 15 of 115
4.

Clearing Agency’s Statement on Burden on Competition

DTC does not believe that the proposed rule change would have any impact on
competition because it would merely make technical clarifying changes and changes for
enhanced readability to the text of the Settlement Guide and the Pledgee’s Agreement that would
not otherwise affect Participants’ and Pledgees’ rights or obligations.
5.

Clearing Agency’s Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received
from Members, Participants, or Others

Written comments relating to this proposed rule change were received by DTC and were
filed as an Exhibit 2 to the proposal, as required by the Form 19b-4 and the General Instructions
thereto.
The proposed rule change was originally filed with the Commission in April 2021 and
posted to the website of DTC’s parent company, The Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation
(“DTCC”). However, because the filing did not satisfy a regulatory formatting requirement, the
Commission had to reject the filing and it was subsequently removed from the DTCC website.
In the time it has taken for DTC to refile the proposal, DTC has received several written
comments, which, again, were filed as an Exhibit 2 to the proposal. Although DTC understands
those comments to be generally supportive of the proposed changes, based on DTC’s review of
each of the comments, DTC believes there is a general misunderstanding of the purpose of this
proposed rule change.
For the sake of clarity, and as more fully described above, this proposed rule change will
not alter DTC’s current practices. Rather, it will merely clarify how securities Pledged through
DTC are recorded in DTC’s system. More specifically, and as more fully described above, the
Settlement Guide currently states that Securities Pledged through DTC are held in an account of
the Pledgee. However, in practice, the Securities remain in the Pledgor’s account but are marked
as Pledged. This is the existing practice today and will not change. Rather, the proposed change
will clarify the text of the Settlement Guide to better reflect the current practice. The change will
not affect the legal rights or obligations of the parties involved in the pledge.
DTC will notify the Commission of any additional written comments received by DTC.
6.

Extension of Time Period for Commission Action
Not applicable.

Page 16 of 115
7.

Basis for Summary Effectiveness Pursuant to Section 19(b)(3) or for Accelerated
Effectiveness Pursuant to Section 19(b)(2)

(a)
The proposed rule change is to take effect immediately upon filing pursuant to
Section 19(b)(3)(A) of the Act 27 and subparagraph (f)(4)(i) of Rule 19b-4 under the Act. 28
(b)
In accordance with subparagraph (f)(4)(i) of Rule 19b-4 under the Act, 29 the
proposed rule change effects a change in an existing DTC service that (A) does not adversely
affect the safeguarding of securities or funds in the custody or control of DTC or for which it is
responsible, and (B) does not significantly affect the respective rights or obligations of DTC or
persons using the service. The proposed rule change would clarify text in the Settlement Guide
and Pledgee’s Agreement without impacting the respective rights or obligations of DTC or
persons using DTC’s services, because the changes are technical in nature.

8.

(c)

Not applicable.

(d)

Not applicable.

Proposed Rule Change Based on Rules of Another Self-Regulatory Organization or
of the Commission

The proposed rule change is not based on the rules of another self-regulatory organization
or the Commission.
9.

Security-Based Swap Submissions Filed Pursuant to Section 3C of the Act
Not applicable.

10.

Advance Notice Filed Pursuant to Section 806(e) of the Payment, Clearing and
Settlement Supervision Act of 2010
Not applicable.

11.

Exhibits
Exhibit 1 – Not applicable.
Exhibit 1A – Notice of proposed rule change for publication in the Federal Register.
Exhibit 2 – Comments Received on the Proposed Rule Change and Related
Correspondence

27

15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(3)(A).

28

17 CFR 240.19b-4(f)(4)(i).

29

Id.

Page 17 of 115
Exhibit 3 – Not applicable.
Exhibit 4 – Not applicable.
Exhibit 5 – Proposed changes to the Settlement Guide and Pledgee’s Agreement.

Page 18 of 115
EXHIBIT 1A
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
(Release No. 34-[_________]; File No. SR-DTC-2021-005)
[DATE]
Self-Regulatory Organizations; The Depository Trust Company; Notice of Filing of and
Immediate Effectiveness of Proposed Rule Change to Modify the DTC Settlement
Service Guide and the Form of DTC Pledgee’s Agreement
Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Act”) 1 and
Rule 19b-4 thereunder, 2 notice is hereby given that on June __, 2021, The Depository
Trust Company (“DTC”) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“Commission”) the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which
Items have been prepared by the clearing agency. DTC filed the proposed rule change
pursuant to Section 19(b)(3)(A) of the Act 3 and Rule 19b-4(f)(4) thereunder. 4 The
Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change
from interested persons.

1

15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1).

2

17 CFR 240.19b-4.

3

15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(3)(A).

4

17 CFR 240.19b-4(f)(4).

Page 19 of 115
I.

Clearing Agency’s Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule
Change
The proposed rule change 5 would modify the DTC Settlement Service Guide

(“Settlement Guide”) 6 and the form of DTC Pledgee’s Agreement (“Pledgee’s
Agreement”), 7 as described below. Specifically, the proposed rule change would revise
text in the Settlement Guide and Pledgee’s Agreement to clarify the text with respect to
the processing of book entries of Pledge-related 8 activity at DTC. The proposed

5

Capitalized terms not defined herein are defined in the Rules, By-Laws and
Organization Certificate of DTC (“Rules”) available at
http://www.dtcc.com/~/media/Files/Downloads/legal/rules/dtc_rules.pdf

6

Available at https://www.dtcc.com/legal/rules-and-procedures. The Settlement
Guide constitutes Procedures of DTC relating to its Settlement services. Pursuant
to the Rules, the term “Procedures” means the Procedures, service guides, and
regulations of DTC adopted pursuant to Rule 27, as amended from time to time.
See Rule 1, Section 1, infra note 7. DTC’s Procedures are filed with the
Commission. They are binding on DTC and each Participant in the same manner
as they are bound by the Rules. See Rule 27, infra note 7.

7

Available at https://www.dtcc.com/legal/rules-and-procedures. Pursuant to Rule
2, Section 3, an entity that uses DTC’s Pledge services must enter into an
agreement with DTC satisfactory to DTC. See Rule 2, Section 3, supra note 5. In
this regard, DTC requires a Pledgee that is not a Participant to sign a Pledgee’s
Agreement. Participants enter into a Participant’s Agreement that binds them to
the Rules and Procedures (including, but not limited to, those related to Pledge
activity), and are not required by DTC to enter into a separate Pledgee’s
Agreement. See also Rule 2, Section 1, supra note 5 (providing terms of the
Participant’s Agreement).

8

Pursuant to Rule 1, the defined term “Pledge” in the Rules means, inter alia,
“creating or providing for a security interest in a Certificated or Uncertificated
Security, a Securities Account or a Securities [sic] Entitlement in accordance with
the NYUCC.” See Rule 1, supra note 5. Pursuant to Rule 1, the term “NYUCC”
means the Uniform Commercial Code of New York, as amended from time to
time. See Rule 1, supra note 5. Pursuant to Rule 1, the term “Certificated
Security” has the meaning given to the term “certificated security” in Section 8102 of the NYUCC. See Rule 1, supra note 5. Pursuant to Section 8-102 of the
NYUCC, “certificated security” means a security that is represented by a
certificate. See NYUCC 8-102. Pursuant to Rule 1, the term “Uncertificated
Security” has the meaning given to the term “uncertificated security” in Section 8-

Page 20 of 115
revisions would reflect in the text of the Settlement Guide and Pledgee’s Agreement that
Pledged Securities remain credited to a Pledgor’s Account unless the Pledgee makes a
demand for the Pledged Securities, as described below. In this regard, the respective
texts of the Settlement Guide and the Pledgee’s Agreement currently indicate that
Pledged Securities are credited to a Pledgee’s Account. As discussed below, the
proposed rule change relates to a technical aspect of the operational processing of Pledge
transactions and would not impact the rights or obligations of a Participant or Pledgee
are. The text of the proposed changes to the rules of DTC are described in greater detail
below.

102 of the NYUCC. See Rule 1, supra note 5. Pursuant to Section 8-102 of the
NYUCC, “uncertificated security” means a security that is not represented by a
certificate. Pursuant to Rule 1, the term “Securities Account” (1) as used with
respect to a Participant or Pledgee, means an account maintained by DTC for the
Participant or Pledgee to which Securities transactions of the Participant or
Pledgee effected through the facilities of DTC are debited and credited in the
manner specified in the Rules and Procedures; and (2) as used with respect to
DTC, means an internal account of DTC to which Securities transactions are
debited and credited to DTC. See Rule 1, supra note 5. Pursuant to Rule 1, the
term “Security Entitlement” has the meaning given to the term “security
entitlement” in Section 8-102 of the NYUCC. The interest of a Participant or
Pledgee in a Security credited to its Account is a Security Entitlement. See id.
Pursuant to Section 8-102 of the NYUCC, “security entitlement” means the rights
and property interest of an entitlement holder with respect to a financial
asset specified in Part 5. See NYUCC § 8-102. NYUCC § 8-501(b) provides that
a person acquires a “security entitlement” when, inter alia, a securities
intermediary indicates by book entry that a financial asset has been credited to the
person’s securities account. The absence of the crediting of a financial asset to an
account of a Pledgee and the fact that an account of a Pledgee is not a securities
account under Article 8 mean that the Pledgee has not acquired a security
entitlement under Article 8. See NYUCC § 8-501(b). Pursuant to Section 8-102,
“entitlement holder” means a person identified in the records of a securities
intermediary as the person having a security entitlement against the securities
intermediary. If a person acquires a security entitlement by virtue of Section 8501(b)(2) or (3), that person is the entitlement holder. See NYUCC § 8-102.

Page 21 of 115
II.

Clearing Agency’s Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the
Proposed Rule Change
In its filing with the Commission, the clearing agency included statements

concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any
comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be
examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The clearing agency has prepared
summaries, set forth in sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of
such statements.
(A)

Clearing Agency’s Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for,
the Proposed Rule Change
1.

Purpose

The proposed rule change of DTC would modify the Settlement Guide and the
form of Pledgee’s Agreement, as described below. Specifically, the proposed rule
change would revise text in the Settlement Guide and Pledgee’s Agreement to clarify the
text with respect to the processing of book entries of Pledge-related 9 activity at DTC.
The proposed revisions would reflect in the text of the Settlement Guide and Pledgee’s
Agreement that Pledged Securities remain credited to a Pledgor’s Account unless the
Pledgee makes a demand for the Pledged Securities, as described below. In this regard,
the respective texts of the Settlement Guide and the Pledgee’s Agreement currently
indicate that Pledged Securities are credited to a Pledgee’s Account. As discussed below,
the proposed rule change relates to a technical aspect of the operational processing of
Pledge transactions and would not impact the rights or obligations of a Participant or
Pledgee.
9

See supra note 8.

Page 22 of 115
The following discussion is provided by DTC and includes, but is not limited to,
its own analysis of applicable state law provisions that DTC believes are relevant for
purposes of describing the proposed rule change.
Background
Eligibility for Pledge Services
The Pledge services of DTC are available to banks, trust companies, brokerdealers and other Persons approved by DTC, which have entered into an agreement with
DTC that is satisfactory to it, for the purpose of effecting a Pledge of Deposited
Securities to such banks, trust companies, broker-dealers and other Persons. 10 A Pledgee
may but need not be a Participant. A Pledgee is required by DTC to sign a Pledgee’s
Agreement unless it is also a Participant. Participants are not required to sign a separate
Pledgee’s Agreement to use DTC’s pledge services because the Participant’s Agreement
binds the Participant to DTC’s Rules and Procedures, including those relating to Pledgerelated activity. Only a Pledgee that is a Participant may receive a Pledge Versus
Payment. 11
Book Entry of Pledges and Legal Effect
As indicated above, the definition of a “Security Entitlement” in the DTC Rules
incorporates the definition of such term in Article 8 of the NYUCC and notes that “[t]he
interest of a Participant or Pledgee in a Security credited to its Account is a Security
Entitlement.”

10

See Rule 2, Section 3, supra note 5.

11

See id.

Page 23 of 115
However, as more fully discussed below, while the Settlement Guide and the
Pledgee’s Agreement make reference to the movement of Securities to a Pledgee’s
Account, from an operational standpoint, DTC does not in fact credit a Security to an
Account of a Pledgee; what the Pledgee receives is not a Security Entitlement. The
Securities remain credited to the Pledgor’s account until the Pledgee releases the Pledged
Securities or makes a demand for the Pledged Securities, as discussed below. Rather, a
notation is placed on the Account of the Pledgor that the Securities are Pledged to the
Pledgee, and the Securities remain in Pledged status until the Pledgee instructs otherwise.
As described below, this bookkeeping method does not adversely impact the
rights of the Pledgee in that the Pledgee maintains Control over the Pledged Securities,
and the Pledged Securities cannot be used by the Pledgor for any other transaction unless
the Pledgee releases the Securities from the Pledged status through an instruction to DTC.
DTC’s Description of Pledge
The Settlement Guide states that:
“[w]hen pledging securities to a pledgee, the pledgor’s position is moved from the
pledgor’s general free account to the pledgee’s account which prevents the pledged
position from being used to complete other transactions. Likewise, the release of a
pledged position would move the pledged position back to the pledgor’s general free
account where it would then be available to complete other transactions.” 12
Paragraph 2 of DTC’s form of Pledgee’s Agreement provides that:
“[s]o long as Pledgee shall maintain a Depository Trust account, Depository
Trust, upon the pledge to Pledgee of securities held by Depository Trust for the account
12

See Settlement Guide, supra note 6 at 3-4.

Page 24 of 115
of any depositor in Depository Trust, will make appropriate entries on its books
transferring the securities from the account of such depositor to the account of Pledgee
and shall maintain such securities in the account of Pledgee until instructed by Pledgee to
release such securities to the account of the pledgor, to deliver such securities to the order
of Pledgee or to transfer such securities on the books of Depository Trust to the account
of a depositor in Depository Trust other than the pledgor.”
The descriptions of DTC’s Pledge arrangements in the (1) Settlement Guide, with
respect to the text shown above, and as more fully described below, and (2) form of
Pledgee’s Agreement are imprecise because in practice DTC does not move or transfer
the securities from an account of the Pledgor to an account of the Pledgee, as more fully
described below.
The definition of a “Security Entitlement” in the DTC Rules incorporates the
definition of such term in Article 8 of the NYUCC and notes that “[t]he interest of a
Participant or Pledgee in a Security credited to its Account is a Security Entitlement.”
However, since DTC is not in fact crediting a Security to an Account of a
Pledgee, what the Pledgee receives is not a Security Entitlement.
The definition of an “Entitlement Holder” in the DTC Rules incorporates the
definition of such term in Article 8 of the NYUCC (as to which see below) and notes that
“[a] Participant or Pledgee is an Entitlement Holder with respect to a Security credited to
its Account”.

Page 25 of 115
However, since DTC is not in fact crediting a Security to an Account of a
Pledgee, the Pledgee is not an Entitlement Holder. However, the Pledgee maintains
Control of the Pledged Securities as more fully described below. A key to a Pledgee
exercising its Control is its ability to instruct through DTC an Entitlement Order for the
delivery, Pledge release or withdrawal of a security.
Entitlement Order
The definition of an “Entitlement Order” in the Rules incorporates the definition
of such term in Article 8 of the NYUCC that “[a]n instruction from a Participant or
Pledgee to the Corporation with respect to a Delivery, Pledge, Release or Withdrawal of a
Security credited to a Securities Account is an Entitlement Order”.
Note that the definition of an Entitlement Order does not require that the Security
be credited to a Securities Account of the instructor. The breadth of this definition allows
permitted entities, such as Pledgees, to issue Entitlement Orders to DTC in respect of
Securities credited to Securities Accounts belonging to others.
DTC Rule 9(B) 13 provides that:
“[i]f [DTC] receives an instruction from a Pledgee to effect a Delivery or
Withdrawal of Pledged Securities, such instruction shall have the effect of notifying
[DTC] that the Pledgee elects not to Release the Pledged Securities but, rather, to assert
its Control over the Pledged Securities by the transfer of a greater interest in the Pledged
Securities to itself or another Person. [DTC] shall accept such an instruction as a
representation that the Pledgee is acting in accordance with applicable law, rules or
regulations, agreements or any adjudication thereof.”
13

See Rule 9(B), supra note 5.

Page 26 of 115
Under NYUCC Section 8-507(a), 14 a securities intermediary satisfies its duty to
comply with an Entitlement Order if it acts with respect to the duty as agreed upon by the
entitlement holder and the securities intermediary. DTC satisfies its duty to comply with
an Entitlement Order if it acts with respect to the duty as agreed upon by the Entitlement
Holder and the Securities Intermediary. In the case of Security Entitlements Pledged on
the books of DTC, DTC satisfies its duty to comply with an Entitlement Order by
complying with the Entitlement Order of the Pledgee.
Control
Under NYUCC Section 9-106(a), 15 “[a] person has control of a certificated
security, uncertificated security, or security entitlement as provided in Section 8-106”. 16
Under NYUCC Section 8-106(d), “[a] purchaser has “control” of a security
entitlement if:
(1) the purchaser becomes the entitlement holder;
(2) the securities intermediary has agreed that it will comply with entitlement
orders originated by the purchaser without further consent by the entitlement holder; or
(3) another person has control of the security entitlement on behalf of the
purchaser or, having previously acquired control of the security entitlement,
acknowledges that it has control on behalf of the purchaser.”

14

NYUCC § 8-507(a).

15

See NYUCC § 9-106(a).

16

NYUCC § 8-106.

Page 27 of 115
Under NYUCC Section 1-102, 17 a purchaser is “a person that takes by purchase”
with “purchase” being defined as “taking by sale, lease, discount, negotiation, mortgage,
pledge, lien, security interest, issue or reissue, gift, or any other voluntary transaction
creating an interest in property”.
NYUCC Section 8-106(f) further provides that “[a] purchaser has “control” under
subsection (c)(2) or (d)(2) even if any duty of the issuer or the securities intermediary to
comply with instructions or entitlement orders originated by the purchaser is subject to
any condition or conditions (other than further consent by the registered owner or the
entitlement holder).”
Official Comment 4 to NYUCC Section 8-106 18 notes that:
“[s]ubsection (d)(2) provides that a purchaser has control if the securities
intermediary has agreed to act on entitlement orders originated by the purchaser if no
further consent by the entitlement holder is required. Under subsection (d)(2), control
may be achieved even though the original entitlement holder remains as the entitlement
holder.”
Example 6 of Official Comment 4 is illustrative:
“Able & Co., a securities dealer, grants Alpha Bank a security interest in a
security entitlement that includes 1000 shares of XYZ Co. stock that Able holds through
an account with Clearing Corporation. Able causes Clearing Corporation to transfer the
shares into a pledge account, pursuant to an agreement under which Able will continue to
receive dividends, distributions, and the like, but Alpha has the right to direct
17

See NYUCC § 1-102.

18

See NYUCC § 8-106.

Page 28 of 115
dispositions. As in Example 3, Alpha has control of the 1000 shares under subsection
(d)(2).”
In the case of security entitlements Pledged on the books of DTC, because DTC
will comply with the instructions of a Pledgee as provided for in Rule 9(B), 19 which is an
agreement between DTC and its Participants and Pledgees, a Pledgee has control of such
security entitlements under NYUCC Section 8-106(d)(2) even when the Pledged
Securities remain credited to the account of the Pledgor.
DTC’s Pledge arrangements operate pursuant to the DTC Rules and the NYUCC.
When Security Entitlements are Pledged to a Pledgee through the facilities of DTC, the
Pledgee has a security interest in such Pledged Security Entitlements. 20 A Pledgee has
“control” under Articles 8 and 9 of the NYUCC and under the DTC Rules of any Security
Entitlements Pledged to it through the facilities of DTC, 21 and the Pledgee is empowered
to issue Entitlement Orders 22 to DTC to direct the release, delivery or withdrawal of any
such Pledged Security Entitlements.
19

See Rule 9(B), supra note 5.

20

The interest transferred is, however, only a security interest if the Pledgor and
Pledgee have an agreement outside of DTC that constitutes a security agreement
under applicable law and as to which the other requirements for attachment and
enforceability of a security interest have been satisfied. The agreement is entered
into by the parties outside of DTC, and DTC does not have knowledge or
information on the existence of such an agreement between the parties.

21

The definition of “Control” in the Rules incorporates the definition of such term
in Article 8 of the NYUCC and notes that “[a] Pledgee has Control of Pledged
Securities until they are Delivered, Released or Withdrawn by the Pledgee.” See
Rule 1, Section 1, supra note 5.

22

The definition of an “Entitlement Order” in the Rules incorporates the definition
of such term in Section 8-102 of the NYUCC and notes that “[a]n instruction from
a Participant or Pledgee to the Corporation with respect to a Delivery, Pledge,
Release or Withdrawal of a Security credited to a Securities Account is an

Page 29 of 115
Example of a Pledge by a Participant to a Pledgee
When Security Entitlements credited to Participant A’s account at DTC are
Pledged to Pledgee B through the facilities of DTC, B has a security interest in such
Pledged security entitlements. 23
B does not itself have “security entitlements” to the underlying securities and B is
not an “entitlement holder” as such terms are defined in the NYUCC.
However, B as Pledgee would have “control” under Articles 8 and 9 of the
NYUCC and under the Rules of any Security Entitlements Pledged to it through the
facilities of DTC, and B is empowered to issue Entitlement Orders to DTC to direct the
release, delivery or withdrawal of any such Pledged Security Entitlements.
Proposed Rule Change
Proposed change to text of Settlement Guide
Pursuant to the proposed rule change, DTC would revise the text of the Settlement
Guide to reflect that Pledged Securities would not move to an Account of the Pledgee.
As discussed above, the movement of the securities is not required to effect a Pledge and
does not impact the rights of Pledgor or Pledgee under the Rules or the NYUCC. Rather
Pledged Securities continue to be credited to the Pledgor’s account, however with a
system notation showing the status of the position as Pledged by the Pledgor to the
Entitlement Order”. As noted above, pursuant to Section 8-102, “entitlement
order” means a notification communicated to a securities intermediary directing
transfer or redemption of a financial asset to which the entitlement holder has
a security entitlement. See NYUCC 8-102.
23

As mentioned above, the interest transferred is, however, only a security interest if
A and B have an agreement outside of DTC that constitutes a security agreement
under applicable law and as to which the other requirements for attachment and
enforceability of a security interest have been satisfied.

Page 30 of 115
Pledgee. This status systemically prevents the Pledged position from being used to
complete other transactions, which is consistent with the Pledgee’s Control over the
Pledged Securities, as discussed above. Likewise, the release of a Pledged position
results in the removal of the notation of the Pledge status of the position and the position
would become available to the Pledgor to complete other transactions.
The changes to the Settlement Guide text are technical in nature, and while
enhancing clarity with respect to the book entries performed by DTC as they relate to
Pledge activity, the change would not impact the rights or obligations of Participants and
Pledgees. In this regard, the applicable sections of the Settlement Guide would be
revised to (1) clarify the text with respect operational aspect of book entries of Pledges,
as discussed above, (2) make changes to text for readability necessary in the context of
the proposed clarification, and (3) revise text for consistency related to the use of the
defined terms, including, but not limited to, Delivery Versus Payment, Pledge, Pledgee,
Pledgor and Pledge Versus Payment, as follows: (underlined, italicized text indicates
additions; [bracketed, italicized] text indicates deletions):
(a) Text included in Item 3 (Collateral Loans) set forth under the heading
“Settlement Transactions” 24 would be revised as follows:
“The collateral loan service allows a Participant (the [pledgor] Pledgor) to
[pledge] Pledge securities as collateral for a loan or for other purposes and
also request the release of [pledged] Pledged securities. This service
allows such [pledges] Pledges and [pledge] Pledge releases to be made
free, meaning that the money component of the transaction is settled
24

See Settlement Guide, supra note 6 at 3-4.

Page 31 of 115
outside of the depository, or valued, meaning that the money component
of the transaction is settled through DTC as a debit/credit to the
[pledgor’s] Pledgor’s and [pledgee’s] Pledgee’s DTC money settlement
account. When [pledging] Pledging securities to a [pledgee] Pledgee, the
[pledgor’s] Pledgor’s position [is moved from the Pledgor’s general free
account to the Pledgee’s account] continues to be credited to the
Pledgor’s account, however with a system notation showing the status of
the position as Pledged by the Pledgor to the Pledgee. This status
systemically [which] prevents the [pledged] Pledged position from being
used to complete other transactions. Likewise, the release of a [pledged]
Pledged position [would move the pledged position back to the] results in
the removal of the notation of the Pledge status of the position and the
position would become [pledgor’s general free account where it would
then be] available to the Pledgor to complete other transactions.”
(b) Text included under the heading “About the Product” that appears under the
heading “Collateral Loan Program” 25 would be revised as follows:
“The Collateral Loan Program allows you to [pledge] Pledge securities
[from] held in your general free account as collateral for a loan or for other
purposes (such as Letters of Credit) to a [pledgee] Pledgee participating in
the program. You can also request the [pledgee] Pledgee to release
[pledge] Pledged securities [back to your general free account]. These
[pledges] Pledges and releases can be free (when money proceeds are
25

See Settlement Guide, supra note 6 at 8-9.

Page 32 of 115
handled outside DTC) or valued (when money proceeds are applied as
debits and credits to the [pledgee’s] Pledgee’s and [pledgor’s] Pledgor’s
money settlement accounts). A Pledgee may, but need not be, a
Participant. Only a Pledgee which is a Participant may receive valued
[pledges] Pledges.”
(c) Text included under the heading “Pledges to the Options Clearing
Corporation” 26 would be revised as follows:
“A Participant writing an option on any options exchange may fully
collateralize that option by [pledging] Pledging the underlying securities
by book-entry through DTC to the Options Clearing Corporation (OCC).
If the option is called (exercised), the securities may be released and
delivered to the holder of the call. If the option contract is not exercised,
OCC validates a release of the [pledged] Pledged securities [, which are
then returned to the Participant’s general free account].”
(d) Text included under the heading “Release of Deposits with Options Clearing
Corporation on Expired Options” would be revised as follows:
“OCC automatically releases securities deposited with it to cover margin
requirements on an option contract when the option contract expires. [The
securities are then allocated to your general free account.] Notification of
the released securities is received via the Collateral Loan Services
functionality in the Settlement User Interface or automated output.”

26

See Settlement Guide, supra note 6 at 10.

Page 33 of 115
(e) In addition to any proposed changes to apply generally with respect to the
Settlement Guide text as described above, text included under the heading
“Shared Control Accounts” 27 would be revised to delete text shown below
that states “Pledgee accounts continue to be available at DTC.” This sentence
was added to the text when Shared control account arrangements were added
to the Procedures 28 to clarify that the existing Pledge-related services would
continue to be offered. As both the original Pledge program and the Shared
control account process are both established programs, DTC believes the
sentence is no longer necessary.
About the Product
Shared control accounts are available as an alternative to “agreement to pledge”
arrangements.
Background
When a Participant [pledges] Pledges securities to [the pledgee account of] a
[pledge] Pledgee at DTC (sometimes called a “hard pledge”), the securities are under the
sole control of the [pledgee] Pledgee. Only the [pledgee] Pledgee can redeliver or release
the securities. [Pledgee accounts continue to be available at DTC.]
Shared control accounts are available at DTC as an alternative to agreement to
[pledge] Pledge (sometimes called “agreement to deliver”) arrangements. A [pledgee]
Pledgee has control over securities delivered by a Participant to the Participant’s shared

27

See Settlement Guide, supra note 6 at 15-16.

28

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 40191 (July 10, 1998), 63 FR 38444
(July 16, 1998) (SR-DTC-98-5).

Page 34 of 115
control account at DTC since the [pledge] Pledgee has the ability to redeliver the
securities without further consent by the Participant. Until the [pledgee] Pledgee
redelivers the securities, the Participant has the flexibility to redeliver or make
substitutions for the securities without obtaining the [pledgee’s] Pledgee’s release of the
securities.
Shared controls are separately identified in DTC’s Reference Directory.
Participants interested in establishing a shared control account should contact their
Relationship Manager.
Procedures for DTC Shared Control Accounts
The following procedures are an addition to DTC’s Procedures for Pledgees.
1. Any Participant may establish a shared control account at DTC and
may designate any DTC [pledgee] Pledgee to be the [pledgee] Pledgee
for that shared control account. A Participant may deliver securities (or
other financial assets) by a [free pledge] Free Pledge from any of its
DTC accounts (the “original account”) to its shared control account in
order to grant a security interest or other interest in the securities to the
[pledgee] Pledgee. The shared control account is an account of the
Participant and is identified with a separate account number from any
other account of the Participant. A Participant may establish multiple
shared control accounts, but only one [pledge] Pledge can be
designated for each shared control account.
2. Except as modified by these procedures, the operation of a shared
control account is identical to the operation of a DTC [pledge] Pledge

Page 35 of 115
[account] and all DTC procedures applicable to [pledge] Pledge
[accounts] are applicable to shared control accounts. No [deliveries vs.
payment] Deliveries Versus Payment, [pledges vs. payment] Pledges
Versus Payment, or physical deposits can be made to a shared control
account and no [deliveries vs. payment ] Pledges Versus Payment,
[pledges vs. payment] Pledges Versus Payment, or physical
withdrawals can be made from a shared control account. A Participant
should not deliver securities to another Participant’s shared control
account. In the instructions for a delivery of securities to a shared
control account, the mandatory hypothecation code field should be
completed in the same manner as it is for a Pledge made without the
use of a shared control [delivery to a pledge] account. The DTC fees
and charges for a transaction involving a shared control account are
the same as the fees and charges for a Pledge transaction that does not
[involving] involve a [pledge] Pledge account. The DTC monthly
account usage charges applicable to a shared control account are
charged to the Participant. The DTC reports and statements to the
Participant and the [pledge] Pledge for a transaction involving a shared
control account are the same as the reports and statements for a
transaction involving a [pledge] Pledge that does not involve a shared
control account.
3. [As with a pledge account, voting]Voting rights on the securities
credited to a shared control account are assigned to the Participant.

Page 36 of 115
Cash dividend and interest payments and other cash distributions on
such securities are credited to the original account. Distribution of
securities for which the ex-distribution date is on or prior to the
payable date or in which the distribution is payable in a different
security are also credited to the original account. Any stock splits or
other distributions of the same securities for which the ex-distribution
date is after the payable date are credited to the shared control account.
4. The securities credited to a shared control account cannot be
designated as or included in the collateral for any obligation of the
Participant or the [pledgee] Pledgee to DTC. DTC has no lien or other
interest in any securities credited to a shared control account.”
Proposed change to text of the Pledgee’s Agreement
Pursuant to the proposed rule change, DTC would revise the text of the Pledgee’s
Agreement to reflect that Pledged Securities do not move to a Pledgee account. The
change is technical in nature and while enhancing clarity with respect to the book entries
performed by DTC as they relate to Pledge activity, the change would not impact the
rights or obligations of Participants and Pledgees pursuant to the Rules, Settlement Guide
and/or the Pledgee’s Agreement. In this regard, the applicable text of the Pledgee’s
Agreement would be revised as follows: (underlined, italicized text indicates additions;
[bracketed, italicized] text indicates deletions):
“[s]o long as Pledgee shall maintain a Depository Trust account, Depository
Trust, upon the pledge to Pledgee of securities held by Depository Trust for the account
of any depositor in Depository Trust, will make appropriate entries on its books to

Page 37 of 115
indicate the pledge of [transferring] the securities from [the account of] such depositor to
the [account of] Pledgee and shall maintain such securities [in the account of] with a
notation that the securities are pledged by the depositor to the Pledgee until instructed by
Pledgee to release such securities to the [account of the] pledgor, to deliver such
securities to the order of Pledgee or to transfer such securities on the books of Depository
Trust to the account of a depositor in Depository Trust other than the pledgor.”
Effective Date
The proposed rule change would become effective upon filing.
2.

Statutory Basis

Section 17A(b)(3)(F) of the Act, 29 requires that the rules of the clearing agency be
designed, inter alia, to promote the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of
securities transactions. DTC believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with this
provision of the Act for the reasons described below.
As described above, the proposed rule change would allow Participants and
Pledgees to more readily understand the Rules and Procedures relating to the processing
of book entries of Pledges at DTC by (1) clarifying text to more accurately reflect the
operational process of how book entries of Pledges are entered on DTC’s system, and (2)
making changes to text for readability necessary in the context of the proposed
clarification. By clarifying the Rules to facilitate Participants’ and Pledgees’ ability to
understand the operational processes relating to Pledge services, and in particular with
respect to how book-entries are made on DTC’s system with respect to Pledge
transactions, DTC believes that the proposed changes would facilitate Participants’ and
29

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(F).

Page 38 of 115
Pledgees’ ability to process Pledge transactions by enhancing their understanding of how
Securities subject to a Pledge transaction are credited to and held in a Pledgee’s Account
pending either their release from Pledge or the exercise of a demand for the Pledged
Securities by the Pledgee. Therefore, by facilitating the ability of Participants to
understand how book-entries of Securities movements are performed and how Pledged
Securities are held, DTC believes the proposed rule change would promote the prompt
and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions, consistent with Section
17A(b)(3)(f) of the Act. 30
(B)

Clearing Agency’s Statement on Burden on Competition

DTC does not believe that the proposed rule change would have any impact on
competition because it would merely make technical clarifying changes and changes for
enhanced readability to the text of the Settlement Guide and the Pledgee’s Agreement
that would not otherwise affect Participants’ and Pledgees’ rights or obligations.
(C)

Clearing Agency’s Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change
Received from Members, Participants, or Others

Written comments relating to this proposed rule change were received by DTC
and were filed as an Exhibit 2 to the proposal, as required by the Form 19b-4 and the
General Instructions thereto.
The proposed rule change was originally filed with the Commission in April 2021
and posted to the website of DTC’s parent company, The Depository Trust and Clearing
Corporation (“DTCC”). However, because the filing did not satisfy a regulatory

30

Id.

Page 39 of 115
formatting requirement, the Commission had to reject the filing and it was subsequently
removed from the DTCC website.
In the time it has taken for DTC to refile the proposal, DTC has received several
written comments, which, again, were filed as an Exhibit 2 to the proposal. Although
DTC understands those comments to be generally supportive of the proposed changes,
based on DTC’s review of each of the comments, DTC believes there is a general
misunderstanding of the purpose of this proposed rule change.
For the sake of clarity, and as more fully described above, this proposed rule
change will not alter DTC’s current practices. Rather, it will merely clarify how securities
Pledged through DTC are recorded in DTC’s system. More specifically, and as more
fully described above, the Settlement Guide currently states that Securities Pledged
through DTC are held in an account of the Pledgee. However, in practice, the Securities
remain in the Pledgor’s account but are marked as Pledged. This is the existing practice
today and will not change. Rather, the proposed change will clarify the text of the
Settlement Guide to better reflect the current practice. The change will not affect the legal
rights or obligations of the parties involved in the pledge.
DTC will notify the Commission of any additional written comments received by
DTC.

Page 40 of 115
III.

Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change, and Timing for Commission
Action
The foregoing rule change has become effective pursuant to Section 19(b)(3)(A) 31

of the Act and paragraph (f) 32 of Rule 19b-4 thereunder. At any time within 60 days of
the filing of the proposed rule change, the Commission summarily may temporarily
suspend such rule change if it appears to the Commission that such action is necessary or
appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in
furtherance of the purposes of the Act.
IV.

Solicitation of Comments
Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments

concerning the foregoing, including whether the proposed rule change is consistent with
the Act. Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
Electronic Comments:
•

Use the Commission’s Internet comment form
(http://www.sec.gov/rules/sro.shtml); or

•

Send an e-mail to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File Number
SR-DTC-2021-005 on the subject line.

Paper Comments:
•

Send paper comments in triplicate to Secretary, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.

31

15 U.S.C 78s(b)(3)(A).

32

17 CFR 240.19b-4(f).

Page 41 of 115
All submissions should refer to File Number SR-DTC-2021-005. This file number
should be included on the subject line if e-mail is used. To help the Commission process
and review your comments more efficiently, please use only one method. The
Commission will post all comments on the Commission’s Internet website
(http://www.sec.gov/rules/sro.shtml). Copies of the submission, all subsequent
amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed
with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule
change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld
from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for
website viewing and printing in the Commission’s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street,
NE, Washington, DC 20549 on official business days between the hours of 10:00 a.m.
and 3:00 p.m. Copies of the filing also will be available for inspection and copying at the
principal office of DTC and on DTCC’s website (http://dtcc.com/legal/sec-rulefilings.aspx). All comments received will be posted without change. Persons submitting
comments are cautioned that we do not redact or edit personal identifying information
from comment submissions. You should submit only information that you wish to make
available publicly. All submissions should refer to File Number SR-DTC-2021-005 and
should be submitted on or before [insert date 21 days from publication in the Federal
Register].
For the Commission, by the Division of Trading and Markets, pursuant to
delegated authority. 33
Secretary
33

17 CFR 200.30-3(a)(12).

Page 42 of 115
EXHIBIT 2

Comments Received on the Proposed Rule Change and Related
Correspondence
***
Re: DTC 2021-005
From: glhovis@embarqmail.com Fri 4/16/2021 5:16 PM
To: John Petrofsky
Any idea how long until reposted? When does it go into effect, as soon as reposting? Is the
wording changing or just formatting? As a retail investor, I’m highly concerned about how these
large firms are ignoring the laws or skating around them to trash great companies. $OCGN has a
great Covid-19 vaccine and they are shorting it with naked shorts and everything but the kitchen
sink. Please tell us help is on the way!
Thanks for replying and hope you can shed some light on these questions above.
Greg
***
SR-DTC-2021-005
From: Jonathan Jones <jajones1402@gmail.com> Mon 4/19/2021 4:38 PM
To: John Petrofsky
Hello Mr. Petrofshy,
My name is Jonathan Jones and I am a concerned Wallstreet Investor.
Recently DTCC removed a Proposed Rule Change from it's website.

Page 43 of 115
This proposed rule change was the SR-DTC-2021-005. As you may know there have been
several rumors spreading as to it's removal. I am writing this email to you with the hopes of
getting a straight answer as to the reasoning for the removal.
The most prevalent answer online has been " the removal was for a formatting issue." . Is this
true? If so, why has it taken so long to be relisted on the DTCC website.
If SR-DTCC-2021-005 is to be relisted, when do you anticipate it being done so?
Thank you for your time.
Sincerely,
Jonathan Jones
Concerned Invertor
***
Re: DTC-2021-005

From: B C <bchouinard19@gmail.com> Thu 4/22/2021 10:05 PM
To: John Petrofsky
Good evening!
I am following up from our conversation from last week regarding the status of DTC2021-005. In our last correspondence on 4/14, we expected the “technical formatting
issues” to be resolved, then refilling DTC-2021-005 either the week of 4/19 or 4/26.
At this time, do you have any updates to share in regards to the status of DTC2021-005 since 4/16?
I’d also like to take this opportunity to ask a couple more questions for additional
clarification:
1) Are all changes being made to DTC-2021-005 still strictly “technical
formatting”? Additional confirmation that there will be absolutely no substance
changes would be greatly appreciated.
2) Once DTC-2021-005 is refiled, will the rule be effective and enforced
immediately, or are additional processes or approvals required beforehand? If

Page 44 of 115
the ladder, please describe the additional processes and estimated completion
dates.
3) Was DTC-2021-005 created because of recent marketplace volatility, more
specifically with stocks such as Gamestop and AMC, or does the development of
this rule predate any of the recent volatile market activity?
Once again, thank you very much for your time!

-Bryan Chouinard
***
Re: DTC-2021-005
From: B C <bchouinard19@gmail.com> Tue 4/27/2021 10:26 AM
To: John Petrofsky
Good morning John,

Do we still expect to see DTC-2021-005 refiled this week?

Can you elaborate on the SEC's "ability to abrogate [DTC-2021-005] for a period of time"?

How long can the SEC abrogate DTC-2021-005? Can they only do this temporarily or do they
have the power to permanently kill DTC-2021-005

Page 45 of 115
In the event the SEC abrogates DTC-2021-005, will there be any type of official notification for
the public, or do they have the power to quietly ignore the rule based on their own subjective
reasoning?

On Fri, Apr 23, 2021 at 10:35 AM Petrofsky, John <JPetrofsky@dtcc.com> wrote:
Hi Brian,
The filing will probably be refiled next week. It is just technical formatting changes. It will be
effective immediately, though the SEC has the ability to abrogate for a period of time. The filing
was made to clarify operational processing descriptions in our rules. The drafting of this change
started before the recent market volatility.
***
From: Drew Rosina <drosina@me.com>
Sent: Thursday, April 29, 2021 9:33 PM
To: Nygard, James
Subject: DTCC-2021-005
It is my understanding that DTCC-2021-005- Is a ruling that prevents using synthetic shares created
by deep ITM calls and married puts from being used to cover REAL short positions. It links any of
these synthetic shares to the call or put that created them. Meaning No more synthetic shares to
cover FTD obligations. Am I understanding this correctly? When does this rule go into effect and are
there any fines for non-compliance?
Regards,

Page 46 of 115
Drew Rosina

***

RE: Status of DTC-2021-005
TradingAndMarkets <TradingAndMarkets@SEC.GOV> Fri 5/14/2021 3:22 PM
To: Ryan Bavetta <bavetta@gmail.com>
cc: TradingAndMarkets <TradingAndMarkets@SEC.GOV>; Petrofsky, John <JPetrofsky@dtcc.com>
Mr. Bavetta,

According to the staff, this filing was never posted on the SEC website.
However, it may have been posted on the DTC website.

Staff is unable to provide any additional information on this filing.
We suggest you contact DTC with your questions.

The contact with respect to this filing at DTC was John Petrofsky.
His email address is JPetrofsky@dtcc.com.

The Division of Trading and Markets

From: Ryan Bavetta <bavetta@gmail.com>
Sent: Monday, May 10, 2021 4:35 PM
To: TradingAndMarkets <TradingAndMarkets@SEC.GOV>; TMOIGLOG

Page 47 of 115
<TMOIGLOG@SharePoint.ad.sec.gov>
Subject: Status of DTC-2021-005

Hello, DTC-2021-005 was posted to the SEC website but then seemingly taken down. The
change seemed to be effective upon filing, which leaves questions as to whether the change is
currently in effect or not.

I was wondering:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Is DTC-2021-005 currently in effect?
Why was the change pulled from the SEC website?
Is there a way to download a copy of the change?
When is the change expected to return to the website?

Thanks,
Ryan Bavetta
***
SR-DTC-2021-005
From: Robert Mangone <RobertMangoes@protonmail.com> Fri 5/14/2021 11:38 PM
To: John Petrofsky
To whom it may concern,
I have become awfully curious as to the reason behind the disappearance of SR-DTC-2021-005.
There seems to be no mention of it on your website anymore, in fact I believe it was taken down
for formatting, however we are here nearly a month on and still no update. SR-DTC-2021-005 is
a leap in the right direction towards ending share rehypothication, if I’m to understand it
accurately.

Page 48 of 115
Thank you for your time, I look forward to your timely response. (Enjoy your weekend)

Robert Mangone
***
SR-DTC-2021-005
From: John Becker <jwbecker434@gmail.com> Sat 5/15/2021 12:09 AM
To: John Petrofsky
Mr Petrofsky,
I understand you are the point of contact for SR-DTC-2021-005. I am emailing you to inquire
about the status of it. It was removed for editing soon after being posted, but that was over a
month ago. Can you give me an estimate for when it will be re-posted? I feel this rule change is
very important to all market participants.
Very Respectfully,
John Becker
***

Page 49 of 115
R-DTC-2021-005
From: Zack Russell <zackrussell101@yahoo.com> Sat 5/15/2021 1:57 AM
To: John Petrofsky
Hello,
I am contacting you as a us retail investor. I am curious as to the status of the reformatting of
rule R-DTC-2021-005. We were informed it was taken down for reformatting

and haven't been updated since. I believe this rule is relevant to showing the
integrity of the US stock market both domestically and across the world.
Thank you.

Zackery Russell.
***

Page 50 of 115
SR-DTC-2021-005
From: Julie Vanderpool <julie-a-v@live.com> Sat 5/15/2021 7:43 AM
To: John Petrofsky
Can you please provide me an update on SR-DTC-2021-005? When will it take effect?
As a retail investor, it is very disheartening to watch the stock market manipulation every day with no
end in sight. How this is allowed to continue is beyond me.
Retail investors are requesting a fair playing field within the stock market.
Thank you,
Julie

***
SR-DTC-2021-005
From: jdreich398@gmail.com Sat 5/15/2021 8:48 AM
To: John Petrofsky
John:
What happened to the rule of SR-DTC-2021-005 that was published about three weeks ago, and then
pulled for formatting corrections? As an individual retail investor, rules like these help to keep me safe,
and the longer that they are not in effect, the longer and more catastrophic the fallout will be.
The internet is watching and waiting, and the whole world is too! And there is not an infinite amount of
patience, so please implement your rulings as quickly as possible.
Thanks,
-Jonathan

***

Page 51 of 115
Re: Comments and follow up questions on DTCC 2021-005
From: Heinrich Fan <heinrichfan@gmail.com> Sat 5/15/2021 11:51 AM
To: John Petrofsky
Good morning Mr. Petrofsky,
My name is Heinrich Fan. I am a former auditor during the 2001-2004 SOX era and somewhat
acquainted with internal control, at the very least, at its most basic level. I've been monitoring
this epic tale of misadventure and corruption since January.

When DTCC 2021-005 was initially released I was very optimistic. It has been demonstrated
throughout Wall St history, as well as supported by evidence compiled this year on reddit
investing subs, such as r/superstonk and r/GME, that rampant naked short selling is a cyclical
and perpetuating problem today in our financial markets. Of course it is, it allows multiple
market participants access to a free source of temporary liquidity. Market makers particularly, as
supplemental liquidity providers, but also positioned to trade ahead them a hugely
advantageous position compared to other investors in the market as well as creates a intrinsic,
unaddressed, but well known conflict of interest. I was appalled, as a former auditor and an
advocate for fairness in the "free market" capitalist system in which we operate, to discover the
neglect of this issue from multiple significant market players including regulators and SROs. The
way this was handled after 2008 is egregious and unacceptable. The continued negligence to
implement appropriate internal controls is paramount to breach of fiduciary duty.
I do not make these statements as accusations or with intent for any legal recourse whatsoever
because I have none. That being said, in my role as a now retail investor I have been watching
the Gamestop situation with fascination and alarm.

Page 52 of 115

I would like to make two requests today, if you please Mr. Petrofsky.

1st) Please reinstate DTCC 2021-005, it provides an appropriate level of internal control to
prevent further naked short selling in a direct fashion that prevents workaround solutions, such as
manipulating SI and rolling naked shorts through deeply OTM puts instead of via borrowed
shares. An indicator flag should follow a borrowed security until the transaction is closed.
Rolling these fails in the same manner that as during the Overstock naked shorting incident
demonstrates continued negligence on the part of regulators and market participants. Particularly
in regard to maintaining, possibly deliberately, this loophole to have access to nearly infinite
liquidity. THIS MUST BE ADDRESSED. Retail investors have been positively reinforced to
"follow the money" and have discovered some of Wall St.'s darker secrets throughout this GME
saga. I do not believe this will stop in the near future. The environment in which these investors
grew up is hostile and exploitative. They are willing to take on additional risk for the sake of
justice. I would suggest your organization facilitate this transition as we move toward fairer
markets in the next few years.

SEC Chair Gary Gensler said in his most recent testimony in front of the House Financial
Services Committee, that market concentration has lead to this conflict and acknowledges it as a
significant cause of systemic risk and concern.

2) Please provide any insight you have into the issues/roadblocks with it being reinstated.
In a previous statement by DTCC the publication was removed due to "formatting issues" .

Page 53 of 115
If this has changed, please provide the change in reason as well as any underlying rationale.
If there is a current or planned timeline for 005 implementation, please share to the best of your
ability, that timeline.

Mr. Petrofsky, I thank you very much for your time and look forward to future improvements at
the DTCC in ensuring stable and fairer markets.

Please confirm receipt if you are able. I would love to hear back from either you or one of your
staff members in a timely fashion.

Best wishes,
Heinrich
***
re: SR-DTC-2021-005. What's the status on this, it seems to have disappeared.
From: Bob Brahms <bob.brahms@gmail.com> Sat 5/15/2021 12:15 PM
To: John Petrofsky
I was excited to see SR-DTC-2021-005, because I think it would be a great help in stopping the
widespread criminal practice of naked short selling and illegal rehypothecation of shares.
But then it was removed, IIRC the reason was something to do with "formatting" and was
supposed to be put back up at some point, but that point has passed.
Is this rule going to simply disappear?

Page 54 of 115
Thanks
Bob Brahms
***
SR-DTC-2021-005
From: John Reilly <johnr586@aol.com> Sat 5/15/2021 4:02 PM
To: John Petrofsky

Dear Sir,

As a concerned citizen and investor can you please inform me when file number SR-DTC-2021-005 will
be released?
What's happening in our stock market is disgusting and it needs to be fixed. You can't have rules for
"regular" investors and other rules for hedge funds. As you know some of these hedge funds are using
dark pools and naked short sales to hammer certain companies into oblivion, this needs to stop now.

Regards, John Reilly

***
Regarding DTC-2021-005 and Reinforcement
From: Nicholas Kogl <nicholaskogl@gmail.com> Mon 5/17/2021 12:56 AM
To: John Petrofsky
Good morning Mr Petrofsky,

Page 55 of 115
I hope you are well! My name is Nick Kog;l a current shareholder of Gamestop ($GME) stock
via an international broker. As I am sure you are aware there is a large amount of controversy
surrounding the stock and the role hedge funds etc play in the movements of the markets.

DT-2021-005 is of particular significance in correcting the market and protecting the 99% from
the influience of the 0.1%. 1 month ago the rule was removed for technical reasons but has not
be re-filed since.

I am contacting you to please request an update on when DTC-2021-005 will be put on the
website again / come into enforcement?

Thank you and I hope you have a great week ahead !

Warm regards,

Nick
--Nicholas J. J. Kogl
MPhil University of Cambridge, B.A Harvard University
***
Mr. Lee,

It appears that this filing has been removed from the DTC website.

Page 56 of 115

Staff is unable to provide any information on this filing.
We suggest you contact DTC with your questions.

The contact with respect to this filing at DTC was John Petrofsky.
His email address is JPetrofsky@dtcc.com.

The Division of Trading and Markets

From: Robert Lee <r0btlee@yahoo.com>
Sent: Monday, May 17, 2021 12:05 PM
To: TradingAndMarkets <TradingAndMarkets@SEC.GOV>; TMOIGLOG
<TMOIGLOG@SharePoint.ad.sec.gov>
Cc: OmbudsmanOMMS <OmbudsmanOMMS@SEC.GOV>
Subject: Re: SR-DTC-2021-005. (SEC Ombudsman Matter Management System (OMMS) Submission Matter ID Number 20210417-00005694)

Hello

To all interested parties,

I am following up to you in hopes to get an update on the SR-DTC-2021-005 filing.
https://www.dtcc.com/-/media/Files/pdf/2021/4/1/B14970-21.pdf

Page 57 of 115

When will the Commission publish DTC's submission?

As you are aware, SR-DTC-2021-005 would limit the ability of market makers and
hedge funds working together to reset FTD transactions and/or conceal short positions
through nefarious options trading.

SR-DTC-2021-005 filing was posted on the DTC website for a period of time and then
removed for what was described by DTC officials as “formatting errors and will be refiled
within 2 weeks”. and 30 days ago the SEC indicated that it's staff has not yet published
DTC's submission and the staff has filing for review.

Thank you for your time and response.

Best Regards,

Robert Lee
(951)525-6796

On Monday, April 26, 2021, 03:21:28 AM PDT, TradingAndMarkets <tradingandmarkets@sec.gov>
wrote:

Page 58 of 115

Mr. Lee,

I’m sorry, but at this point we are unable to say anything specific to this filing.

The Division of Trading and Markets

From: Robert Lee <r0btlee@yahoo.com>
Sent: Friday, April 23, 2021 1:16 PM
To: TradingAndMarkets <TradingAndMarkets@SEC.GOV>; TMOIGLOG
<TMOIGLOG@SharePoint.ad.sec.gov>
Cc: TradingAndMarkets <TradingAndMarkets@SEC.GOV>; OmbudsmanOMMS
<OmbudsmanOMMS@SEC.GOV>
Subject: Re: SR-DTC-2021-005. (SEC Ombudsman Matter Management System (OMMS)
Submission - Matter ID Number 20210417-00005694)

Dear SEC Division of Trading and Markets,

Thank you for your response. I have read through the references provided, they were most
helpful. Sir/Ma'am, so I am clear on the status and timing of the filing, and so I may comment. Has the
Commission staff asked the SRO questions about this proposed rulemaking and awaiting responses?

Thank you for your time

Best Regards,

Robert Lee
(951)525-6796

Page 59 of 115

On Friday, April 23, 2021, 05:43:01 AM PDT, TradingAndMarkets <tradingandmarkets@sec.gov> wrote:

Mr. Lee,

It appears that you are asking about this filing - https://www.dtcc.com//media/Files/pdf/2021/4/1/B14970-21.pdf.

The Commission has not yet published DTC’s submission for comment (see
https://www.investor.gov/introduction-investing/investing-basics/role-sec/how-submit-commentssec for more information on the comment process).
As a registered clearing agency, DTC is a self-regulatory organization (or “SRO”) (see
https://www.sec.gov/rules/sro.shtml).
When an SRO submits a rule filing to the Commission, the Commission staff generally review it
and may ask the SRO questions about its proposed rulemaking.
The questions the staff asks may cause the SRO to amend its filing before the Commission
publishes the filing to request public comment.
Once the Commission’s review is complete, it will publish the filing (and any amendments) and
request comment from the public.
Any DTC proposed rules would be posted to this page of the Commission’s website https://www.sec.gov/rules/sro/dtc.htm.

We encourage you to keep an eye on this page and, if you want to comment on this DTC filing,
submit a comment on the filing once it is posted.

The Division of Trading and Markets

Page 60 of 115
From: Robert Lee <r0btlee@yahoo.com>
Sent: Thursday, April 22, 2021 5:09 PM
To: TradingAndMarkets <TradingAndMarkets@SEC.GOV>; TMOIGLOG
<TMOIGLOG@SharePoint.ad.sec.gov>
Subject: RE: SR-DTC-2021-005. (SEC Ombudsman Matter Management System (OMMS)
Submission - Matter ID Number 20210417-00005694)

Dear SEC Division of Trading and Markets,

Please provide status of SR-DTC-2021-005. I have attached background information that was submitted
to SEC Ombudsman who referred me to your office. Thank you for your attention and response.

Best Regards,

Robert Lee
(951)525-6796

----- Forwarded Message ----From: Ombudsman OMMS <ombudsmanomms@sec.gov>
To: r0btlee@yahoo.com <r0btlee@yahoo.com>
Sent: Thursday, April 22, 2021, 01:15:08 PM PDT
Subject: SEC Ombudsman Matter Management System (OMMS) Submission - Matter ID Number
20210417-00005694

U.S. SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Page 61 of 115

Dear Mr. Lee,
Thank you for contacting the Ombudsman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with
respect to SR-DTC-2021-005.
The SEC Ombudsman handles questions and complaints by retail investors about the SEC or any of the
self-regulatory organizations (SROs) that it oversees.
From the information you provided, your questions and concerns would be best addressed by the SEC
Division of Trading and Markets (https://www.sec.gov/divisions/trading-markets). You can contact the
Division by phone at (202) 551-5777 or by email at tradingandmarkets@sec.gov.
I hope this information is helpful to you.
Sincerely,
Nancy A. Doty
Senior Counsel
Office of the Ombudsman

The Ombudsman generally treats matters as confidential, and takes reasonable steps to maintain the
confidentiality of communications. The Ombudsman also attempts to address matters without sharing
information outside of the Ombudsman staff, unless you give the Ombudsman permission to do
so. However, the Ombudsman may need to contact other SEC divisions or offices, Self-Regulatory
Organizations, entities, and/or individuals and share information without your permission under certain
circumstances including, but not limited to: a threat of imminent risk or serious harm; assertions,
complaints, or information relating to violations of the securities laws; allegations of government fraud,
waste, or abuse; or if required by law, such as pursuant to a court order or Freedom of Information Act
request initiated by a third party.
Information provided by the staff via email is informal and is not binding on the staff or the
Commission. The information is provided as a service to investors. It is neither a legal representation nor
a statement of SEC policy. SEC staff cannot act as your personal representative or attorney. For specific
information on protecting your particular rights, or if you feel you need a definitive legal analysis of your
particular situation, it may be in your best interest to consult with an attorney who specializes in securities
law.
This communication and any attachments may be privileged or confidential. If you are not the intended
recipient, you have received this communication in error and any review, dissemination, distribution,
copying, or use of this communication is strictly prohibited. In such an event, please notify SEC staff
immediately by reply email to Ombudsman@sec.gov or by phone toll-free at 877.732.2001 and
immediately delete this communication and all attachments.
Ombudsman
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street NE | Washington, DC 20549
202.551.3330 | Toll-free: 877.SEC.2001 (877.732.2001) | Fax: 301.847.4722
Ombudsman@sec.gov | https://www.sec.gov/ombudsman

***

Page 62 of 115

SR-DTC-2021-005
From: Fluffy Snuffaluffagus <heathryan65@gmail.com> Tue 5/18/2021 3:19 PM
To: John Petrofsky
John,
I would first like to say thank you for your time and look forward to your response in regards to
the filing SR-DTC-2021-005. I am aware of a formatting error that has delayed it's official
publish and am trying to verify its status. Attached is context you submitted with another retail
investor in regards to this matter.

"Thank you for your inquiry.

There was a technical formatting issue with the filing. It will be refiled shortly and then reposted.
In substance it will remain the same."

I think the general census in the retail community is regardless of formatting, does the original
context to include dates, carry over to the newly formatted document?

In a follow up email dated 4/13 at 2100, an email was sent posed with the question as to when
the 005 ruling would be refiled and on 4/14 at 0930 a reply was delivered with this;

Page 63 of 115
"It will likely be refiled within a week or two."

The date is May 18th 2021 and there has not been an official release or update as to where we
stand on the re-release of this ruling. Any guidance, answers and responses are highly
appreciated. We as an entire retail community greatly appreciate the work you guys are doing,
and would love to know that accountability at the higher tiers is being enforced.
Thank you,
Heath
***
DTCC-2021-005
From: Norberto Martinez <martinez.norberto100@gmail.com> Wed 5/19/2021 1:33 PM
To: John Petrofsky
Cc: Chair@sec.gov; CommissionerLee@sec.gov; CommissionerPeirce@sec.gov;
CommissionerRoisman@sec.gov; CommissionerCrenshaw@sec.gov; DERA@sec.gov
Dear Mr. Petrofsky,

You have brought this filing down from your website for a "technical formatting issue" after it
had already been through the approval and implementation process. You claimed that it would be
refiled and then reposted shortly but it's been a month now and still nothing. You have stopped
responding as well.

Given the contents of this filing and it's pertinence to ensuring fair and just markets, I
would like to know what the timeline is for this filing to be reposted?

Page 64 of 115

I find it very odd that the DTCC is removing a ruling that would shine light on naked shorting
when it is rampant in our markets today. My hope is that you are not being complicit in hiding
the illegal manipulation of our markets by your members.

Thank you for your time,
-Norberto Martinez
A US Citizen and concerned investor

***
Re: SR-DTC-2021-005. (SEC Ombudsman Matter Management System (OMMS)
Submission - Matter ID Number 20210417-00005694)
From: Robert Lee <r0btlee@yahoo.com> Wed 5/19/2021 4:13 PM
Hello Mr. Petrofsky,

I know you must be busy. I don't know if you received my previous message. Please
provide status of SR-DTC-2021-005. When will the updated filing for SR-DTC-2021005 be posted to the DTC website?

Page 65 of 115
As you are aware, SR-DTC-2021-005 would limit the ability of market makers and
hedge funds working together to reset FTD transactions and/or conceal short positions
through nefarious options trading.

Regards,
Robert Lee,
951-525-6796
***
Re: SR-DTC-2021-005. (SEC Ombudsman Matter Management System (OMMS)
Submission - Matter ID Number 20210417-00005694)
From: Robert Lee <r0btlee@yahoo.com> Wed 5/19/2021 4:44 PM
To: John Petrofsky
Mr Petrofsky,

Thank you Sir for your response. The Commission has completed it's review. Does this
filing require a public comment period or as an SRO you would implement this important
filing without delay? As you are aware, the increase of dark pool trading and the
increase of abuse of the failure-to-deliver mechanism, options convertibles and other
obfuscated trading practices in today's market is extremely troubling. Combined with the
extreme lack of transparency in OTC dark pool markets and high frequency trading
there is almost no chance for a retailer to participate in a free market.
Thank you again Sir and all the best.

Page 66 of 115
Robert Lee
(951)525-6796

On Wednesday, May 19, 2021, 01:16:26 PM PDT, Petrofsky, John <jpetrofsky@dtcc.com> wrote:
Hi Robert,

Thank you for your interest.

I get more emails than I am able to respond to on this one. The filing is currently being finalized and will
be filed shortly.

Have a great day.

JP

John Petrofsky
Director and Assistant General Counsel*
DTCC – Tampa
813.470.2115

*Admitted to the Bar in the States of New York and New Jersey
Authorized House Counsel in the State of Florida
From: Robert Lee <r0btlee@yahoo.com>
Sent: Wednesday, May 19, 2021 4:13 PM
To: Petrofsky, John <JPetrofsky@dtcc.com>
Cc: OmbudsmanOMMS <ombudsmanomms@sec.gov>; TradingAndMarkets
<tradingandmarkets@sec.gov>
Subject: Re: SR-DTC-2021-005. (SEC Ombudsman Matter Management System (OMMS) Submission Matter ID Number 20210417-00005694)

Page 67 of 115

Hello Mr. Petrofsky

I know you must be busy. I don't know if you received my previous message. Please
provide status of SR-DTC-2021-005. When will the updated filing for SR-DTC-2021005 be posted to the DTC website?

As you are aware, SR-DTC-2021-005 would limit the ability of market makers and
hedge funds working together to reset FTD transactions and/or conceal short positions
through nefarious options trading.
Regards,
Robert Lee,
951-525-6796

***

From: Dan Maurin <dmaurin2@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, May 20, 2021 6:45 AM
To: Nygard, James <jnygard@dtcc.com>
Subject: Rule 2012.005

A new DTCC rule proposal (DTC-2021-005) You can't borrow the same share more
than once. You can't use collateral to do other bets ( rehypothecation ). You can't
use call options contracts to close short shares.

Page 68 of 115
Hello James,

I was wondering what the status is for passing rule DTC-2021-005? Assuming this is a way for
brokers and market makers to short and generate naked shares, my second question is why is this
possible in the first place?

Why would we allow Hedge Funds and Market Makers to print counterfeit shares? It appears
from many YouTube and Twitter feeds I subscribe this practice is hurting the retail investor.

If you have a paper or study that explains why this practice is allowed I would love to read it.

Thanks you,

***
Re: SR-DTC-2021-005
From: Jason Williams <jrwilli@tds.net> Thu 5/20/2021 12:49 PM
To: John Petrofsky
John
I would like to schedule a call regarding the ongoing FTD of AMC stock and subsequent
damages sustained by retail investors by the delay of the DTC to post and enforce rule SR-DTC2021-005.

Page 69 of 115
I am available to discuss the reasons for the delays today. Further delays are unacceptable
without the DTC providing written excuses.

Thank You,

Jason Williams

Begin forwarded message:
From: Jason Williams <jrwilli@tds.net>
Date: May 20, 2021 at 8:12:15 AM CDT
To: ashuman@dtcc.com
Subject: Re: Retail legal actions against DTC managing board members
Ms. Shuman-

Prior to me organizing legal actions against DTC board members I think we should discuss
WHY DTC has not reposted DTC rule 005. I am available most of today to discuss.

Regards,

Jason Williams

Page 70 of 115
***
Re: SR-DTC-2021-005
From: Jason Williams <jrwilli@tds.net> Fri 5/21/2021 7:22 AM
To: John Petrofsky
JohnUsing public data for only the month of May there are $100’s of millions of counterfeit shares of
AMC stock. Review the math here: https://youtu.be/wY-r167U6TI

This is criminal conspiracy and should be prosecuted under the RICO act.

What is the DTC doing about this? Where the [h###] is SR-DTC-2021-005?

Get back to me with an explanation please. Further delays could be viewed as criminal
conspiracy.

Respectfully,

Jason
***
From: Peggy F <peggyflemingsd@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, May 20, 2021 9:14 PM
To: Lam, Kristen <klam1@dtcc.com>
Subject: Status Request - DTC-2021-005

Page 71 of 115
Ms. Lam,

I'm herewith requesting information on the status of (proposed) DTC-2021-005 since I have been
unable to locate a record online at https://www.dtcc.com/legal/sec-rule-filings.

As a retail investor I find this rule, which in my opinion increases the transparency and fairness
of the market, to be a crucial part of my investment choices - now and in the future.

Your prompt response is appreciated.

Thank you,

Peggy Fleming
***

Re: Automatic reply: SR-DTC-2021-005
From: Jason Williams <jrwilli@tds.net> Mon 5/24/2021 8:20 AM
To: John Petrofsky
JohnI want to schedule a call today. DTC needs to come clean with delays.

Page 72 of 115
https://www.dtcc.com/-/media/Files/pdf/2021/5/21/GOV1102-21.pdf

Give me a time to call your direct line.

Regards,
Jason
***
DTC-2021-005 Status
From: Justin Hink <jhink7@gmail.com> Mon 5/24/2021 7:52 PM
To: John Petrofsky

Mr. Petrofsky,

I am sending you this brief note today to inquire about the status of the proposed rule referenced
in the subject line of this email. It was posted then subsequently (and silently) taken down from
the DTC's website that communicates new rules. This was over a month ago.

Is there an update you can provide on this matter? I believe DTC-2021-005 to be incredibly
promising as it effectively corrects and mitigates a number of key issues that currently exist in
our equity markets. I am eagerly waiting to see the measures encapsulated by the rule enacted.

If you are the wrong person to contact about this matter, I do apologize but do humbly ask you to
forward my request to a more relevant party.

Page 73 of 115

Thank you for your time,

Justin Hink

***
SR-DTC-2021-005 | Document Removed
From: Leonidas Georgiou <leonidasgeorgiou@gmail.com> Mon 5/31/2021 7:42 AM
To: John Petrofsky
Hi,

A reddit community of 329 000 users has noticed that the document named SR-DTC-2021-005
related to share rehypothecation and tracking was removed from the DTC website 1 month ago.

The DTCC has tabled new transparency rules for short selling (basically tagging real vs synthetic
shares, and preventing the re-lending of synthetics) which will impact current short-squeeze plays by
preventing "hypothecation" or "nested share lending"

1) The now dead link to DTC-2021-005
https://www.dtcc.com/-/media/Files/Downloads/legal/rule-filings/2021/DTC/SR-DTC-2021-005.pdf

2) The missing DTC-2021-005 between the 004 and 006 DTC docs.

Page 74 of 115

3) One of many reddit topics discussing the removal of SR-DTC-2021-005
https://www.reddit.com/r/Superstonk/comments/ncnz1l/where_in_the_world_is_srdtc2021005_
we_were_told/

Could you kindly let me know the reason for the removal of this document as well as when we
might be seeing it back on the DTC's website again?

Page 75 of 115
There are a few hundred thousands of people waiting for this document to be passed, approved
and implemented. It's sudden removal from the DTC's website has sparked concern and
suspicion by the communities eagerly awaiting for this ruling...

It would not be inconceivable that these communities may begin actively questioning the
removal of this document on a much larger scale and more publically noticeable scale.

I believe you are the correct person to contact in regards to SR-DTC-2021-005 as shown in a
backup copy of the SR-DTC-2021-005 that the reddit communities managed to keep before it
was taken down. See below.

I urge you to address the reasons behind the removal of this document as well as it's
reinstatement.

Page 76 of 115

Page 77 of 115

-Regards
Leonidas Georgiou

***

Page 78 of 115
SR-DTC-2021-005 removal
From: Tim Causby <timcausby@gmail.com> Mon 5/31/2021 9:38 AM
To: John Petrofsky
Good morning,
I hope this email finds you well. I, along with hundreds of thousands others, am curious and inquiring
about the timely return posting of DTC-2021-005. My understanding was that it was taken down for
formatting and would return within a couple weeks. Is there an expected date of return to the federal
register archives as this rule is imperative to the safety of our financial markets? As well, does this rule’s
publishing date take effect the date it was originally posted/published, i.e. April 1, 2021 (I believe that to
be the signed date)?
Thank you and I look forward to your timely response.
Tim Causby

***
SR-DTC-2021-005
From: Amy Walker <planktonette@gmail.com> Mon 5/31/2021 3:33 PM
To: John Petrofsky; Brandon Becker

Dear John,

I am sure that you are being bombarded by emails about this, there being 300,000 people
awaiting news of this particular rule.

Filed on April 1st, it looked like a rule that was a no-brainer given the current situation with
rampant naked shorting of GME stock - as of the time of writing, we have reasonable
confirmation that there are ~80million shareholders of a company that has a 21million share free

Page 79 of 115
float and only 74 million shares issued, holding anywhere between 190million and 1.2billion
shares -, however it was pulled with no explanation on April 12th.

After being contacted by another fellow shareholder, you stated that there was a:
"Technical formatting issue with the filing. It will be refiled shortly and then posted."

A follow-up email was then sent on a April 13 by the same shareholder asking when should we
expect to see 005 refiled.

The reply from yourself was received on April 14 stating:

"It will likely be refiled within a week or two."
On May 17th - a full month and 2 days with no refiling -, a fellow shareholder reached out to
both yourselves as well as the SEC for an update and was told on May 19:

"I get more emails than I am able to respond to on this one. The filing is currently being finalized
and will be filed shortly."

as well as:

"The filing will be effective upon filing with the SEC. Once filed it will be posted to dtcc.com"

Page 80 of 115
It has now been 12 days since that email was sent, with no sign of SR-DTC-2021-005. Could
you please provide a specific and explicit date by which we can expect for this rule to be refiled
and implemented?

Regards
Amy Walker
***
SR-DTC-2021-005
From: Brendan Oswald <BPO65@hotmail.com> Mon 5/31/2021 10:28 PM
To: John Petrofsky
Hello Mr Petrofsky,

I am concerned as a retail investor about the removal of the filing DTC-2021-005. It is my belief
there is currently extensive naked shorting of stocks occurring on a daily basis, and has most
likely been going on for decades.
I have seen research that suggests large hedge funds are working in tandem to exercise short
ladder attacks on stocks, utilising synthetic borrowed shares, multiple times over to drive stock
price down, and then Failure to deliver on these borrowed shares is being ' covered ' with deep
ITM calls of the same stock, which is in theory, an expected possible gain or asset being used as
collateral for a default, it just does not stack up to the idea that the market is free and fair.
I am aware the SEC has prosecuted many hedge funds for breaking laws around naked shorting,
yet the punishment for these breaches is, from the records, a singular fine for collective years of
illegal practices by hedge funds.

Page 81 of 115
I strongly believe the whole concept of naked shorting needs to be permanently eradicated, and
penalties of fines and or incarceration for those breaching shorting laws need to be imposed.

I believe that the DTC-2021-005 rule will greatly deincentivise participants from engaging in
naked shorting practices, and create a fairer market for all.

Could you please provide me with update on the progress of this filing, and when you think it
might be approved and implemented . Thankyou for your time in reading my email.

Sincerely

Brendan Paul Oswald
***
What is the status of SR-DTC-2021-005 which was pulled for "minor formatting issues"
From: Scott Blomenkamp <sablomenkamp@gmail.com> Tue 6/1/2021 4:59 PM
To: John Petrofsky
cc: FSCDems@mail.house.gov
Mr Petrofsky,
SR-DTC-2021-005 was pulled weeks ago for minor formatting issues, and has yet to be reposted or
approved that I am aware of. As a investor in the markets, the issue of naked shorting has been a
continual problem for decades and in or about 2008 was clearly identified. Now there seems to be
substantial naked shorting going on with several stocks prominent in the news since January 2021. This
rule directly addresses one oof the major ways naked shoots are “hidden”. I would like to know the real
reason was pulled and when it will be re posted. I am sure you are aware of the negative effects of
naked shorting on investor value and the ramifications.
Sincerely,

Page 82 of 115
Scott Blomenkamp

***
Status of SR-DTC-2021-005
From: Nick Walker <skywalker91n@gmail.com> Fri 6/4/2021 2:48 PM
To: Lisa Jager Rosenbaum; John Petrofsky
Good afternoon,

I am following up regarding a recently withdrawn document to ask for any available information
regarding its status. The document in question is the SR-DTC-2021-005. The proposed rule
change was uploaded only temporarily, and taken down for "formatting" but has not been
resubmitted within what would be considered a reasonable time. If you are able to share any
information as to the status, or potentially a timeframe for when we may expect a resubmission,
it would be greatly appreciated. This proposed rule change is very important for the protection of
the market's integrity due to the saturation of short positions being sold naked, and many
investors are looking forward to its implementation to protect the economy from further
predatory manipulation by bad actors.

Sincerely,
Nicholas Walker
***

Page 83 of 115
Inquiry regarding status of DTC-2021-005
From: Birrel Squirdoff <b.squirdoff@gmail.com> Fri 6/4/2021 4:08 PM
To: John Petrofsky
Mr. Petrofsky,

I would like to inquire on the status of the filing DTC-2021-005. This filing was removed
multiple months ago, pending a reformatting that was expected to take “a couple of weeks.”

Well, a couple of weeks has come and gone multiple times, yet the filing is still missing. Every
time someone has inquired about it, they report back saying that it “should be posted next week,”
or it “will be posted soon.” And yet it never is.

I have no doubt that you have been receiving many inquiries regarding this filing, and even
though you have received (I assume) unusually-high interest in its whereabouts, there seems to
be no urgency in refiling this document.

I cannot claim to know the motives of other individuals, but for myself I am currently holding a
position that will be affected in a positive way upon the filing (and enforcement...) of DTC2021-005, and so I am eager to know when it will be refiled and become effective.
Thank you for your time.
Regards,
B. Squirdoff

Page 84 of 115
***
2021-005
From: glhovis@embarqmail.com Fri 6/4/2021 6:34 PM
To: John Petrofsky
John,
What is taking so long, the synthetics have been and continue to grow! This needs implemented now!
Thanks,
Greg

***
Re: Status of SR-DTC-2021-005
From: Nick Walker <skywalker91n@gmail.com> Thu 6/3/2021 3:12 AM
To: Lisa Jager Rosenbaum; John Petrofsky
Good morning,

I am following up again hoping for a response regarding the status of SR-DTC-2021-005. As
evidenced by today's market volatility, it is obvious that bad actors are engaged in clear market
manipulation through sales of synthetic shares in order to suppress true market price. Multiple
heavily shorted stocks gained significant value early in the day today as a small degree of shorts
were being covered, only to be followed by an immediate surplus of synthetic shares being sold
to drive back down the price growth caused by covering. This illegal behavior can be stopped
with 005. All of this information can be confirmed via market data and Bloomberg terminals.

Page 85 of 115
Sincerely,
Nicholas Walker

On Fri, Jun 4, 2021, 1:48 PM Nick Walker <skywalker91n@gmail.com> wrote:
Good afternoon,

I am following up regarding a recently withdrawn document to ask for any available information
regarding its status. The document in question is the SR-DTC-2021-005. The proposed rule
change was uploaded only temporarily, and taken down for "formatting" but has not been
resubmitted within what would be considered a reasonable time. If you are able to share any
information as to the status, or potentially a timeframe for when we may expect a resubmission,
it would be greatly appreciated. This proposed rule change is very important for the protection of
the market's integrity due to the saturation of short positions being sold naked, and many
investors are looking forward to its implementation to protect the economy from further
predatory manipulation by bad actors.

Sincerely,
Nicholas Walker
***
From: Christopher Fuhrman <cfuhrman614@yahoo.com>
Sent: Tuesday, June 8, 2021 8:17 PM

Page 86 of 115
To: Nygard, James
Subject: David Inggs
Hello again Mr Nygard,

Let me say this: OUTSTANDING!

I find it absolutely OUTSTANDING that the DTCC, in their infinite wisdom, has selected Mr
Inggs to the Board of Directors. The head of global operations for Citadel and Citadel
securities? So let me get this straight, how many times has Citadel and Citadel Securities been
fined for failing to follow DTCC and SEC regulations? How is there no conflict of interest? I’m
not even referring to how this impacts DTC-2021-005. There is no way it gets implemented with
him on the BOD. So I’m guessing it played out this way:

DTCC: let’s implement 21-005
Citadel: please don’t it will crush the system!
DTCC: give us a reasonable solution.
Citadel: remove 005 and we will put Mr Inggs on your BOD and work to fix the system.
DTCC: ok but we will fine you 200k down the road and don’t ever do this again!
Citadel: of course, we’d never do that.

Outstanding performance.

Will email you tomorrow.

Page 87 of 115

Thanks

Chris Fuhrman
Retail investor

***
From: Christopher Fuhrman <cfuhrman614@yahoo.com>
Sent: Wednesday, June 9, 2021 8:57 PM
To: Nygard, James <jnygard@dtcc.com>
Subject: 2021-005

Mr Nygard,
Still here. Still waiting. You all pulled 005 off for a reason. You also let the fox in the henhouse by Mr.
Ingg to your BOD.
Disgraceful.
Be back tomorrow.
Chris Fuhrman
Retail investor

***
From: Christopher Fuhrman <cfuhrman614@yahoo.com>
Sent: Thursday, June 10, 2021 10:00 AM
To: Nygard, James <jnygard@dtcc.com>
Subject: 005
ATTENTION: External Email – Be Suspicious of Attachments, Links and Requests for Login Information.
Good Morning,

Page 88 of 115
I hope you have been enjoying my emails and hopefully they haven’t been going to spam or junk.
Anyway, I’m pretty invested in AMC and am honestly hoping we bankrupt the [s###] out of Citadel and
you clowns at the DTCC. That’s all I got today.
See you tomorrow
By the way, not selling and waiting for the margin call doesn’t cost me a thing
Chris Fuhrman
Retail Investor

***

Regarding SR-DTC-2021-005
From: Miguel Calderon <migcald1@gmail.com> Thu 6/10/2021 12:44 PM
To: John Petrofsky
Hello John,
I am writing you in regards to the previously published SR-DTC-2021-005 filing. This rule, as
you are aware, would limit MM's ability to reset FTD transactions or conceal short positions
through options trading.

After being pulled down well over a month ago for "formatting errors," the filing has not yet
been posted.

Page 89 of 115
I am following up to see when you would expect the "formatting errors" to be addressed and SRDTC-2021-005 to be posted and in effect.

Thank you for your time.

Best,

Miguel
migcald1@gmail.com
***

From: Christopher Fuhrman <cfuhrman614@yahoo.com>
Sent: Friday, June 11, 2021 11:35 AM
To: Nygard, James <jnygard@dtcc.com>
Subject: 005
ATTENTION: External Email – Be Suspicious of Attachments, Links and Requests for Login Information.
Enact 2021-005! That’s it, that’s the email.
Have a great weekend.
Chris Fuhrman
Retail investor

***
Shameful - $GME
From: Jake Tetreault <godsglorybox@yahoo.com> Sat 6/12/2021 11:19 AM
To: John Petrofsky

Page 90 of 115

Hello,
I wanted to voice my displeasure in the way your organization is defrauding retail investors, by being
complicit in Citadel Securities illegal market making and handling of FTD’s of $GME.
The chicken always comes home to roost however. Citadel will bring your organization down with them.
Jake

***
SR-DTC-2021-005
From: Richard Graham <lionsgatepaint@gmail.com> Sat 6/12/2021 11:37 AM
To: John Petrofsky
Dear Mr Petrofsky,
Can you please advise the status of SR-DTC-2021-005. This rule needs to be implemented to stop the
predatory shorting of stocks by creating naked shorts or synthetic shares.
These shares dilute the market value and are a major cause of price manipulation. How many good
companies have been ruined due to this illegal activity? Too many. Who wants to invest in the US
market when this illegal activity runs rampant. The companies that are doing this need to be held
accountable and the individuals need to be tried and put to jail. This is stealing!!!
Regards,
Richard Graham
Canadian Investor

***
Issue within the market - conflict of interest
David Hall <david@fetcher.co.uk> Sat 6/12/2021 12:31 PM
To: John Petrofsky; Chair@sec.gov
Dear John,

1

SR-DTC-2021-005

Why is this filing being purposefully delayed?

Page 91 of 115

The only conclusion one can draw is nefarious activities. In a fantasy world where those in
charge are also the major criminals are the same; I'm not sure that's one the majority want to live
in. Hopefully it isn't the one we live in and this is just coincidental that Citadel seems to make
the rules, allegedly. After all, money buys everything. But hopefully not everyone. Hopefully not
you John - I imagine you aren't anti-American and care deeply about the billions of lives on the
planet that want to thrive..

I know my Grandparents didn't fight in WW2 in high-ranking positions for such a level of
corruption to go unpunished. Who knows if it will be in my time on this planet that those in
charge to the right thing. Who knows.

Thanks in advance,
David
***
SR-DTC-2021-005
From: Karen Armstrong <armstrongartifacts@gmail.com> Sat 6/12/2021 12:41 PM
To: John Petrofsky
Dear Sir,
Hundreds of thousands of eyes are upon you with regards to this document’s “reformatting” and it is
beyond clear that the stated official reason for delay of this rule’s placement is not forthright. Every
single pair of eyes are wired to functioning brains, all of which are now laser-focused on your actions. As
a body, you are facing serious backlash for your role in creating this economic monster, and any
continued efforts to temper the fallout for the those responsible will only exacerbate the furious
sentiment against you. Your blatant cronyism has allowed the monster to ravage every city and town in
this country, perhaps even the world, and you are dripping with the blood it makes run. If you do not

Page 92 of 115
now, finally, act with full haste and righteousness, you may just be the cause of death for the market
you were mandated to protect and keep stable. But perhaps this would be a most fitting end to a
market that is not “free” at all, but one that caters mainly to those with the best of computer algorithms
and the worst of human motives.
I beg you, as both a citizen of our nation and a sister to the world, to bring justice to the unconscionable
tyranny that has prevailed upon the market. Bring SR-DTC-2021-005 to the fore, and enforce it with all
your might, and you just may earn the trust in you that has long been abandoned by a well-informed
and angry populace. More importantly, since it appears that the public trust is not an issue of major
concern to you, this rule’s enforcement may serve to restore some of the extremely shaky confidence in
the market. The longer you withhold this rule, the more complicit in the impending crash you become.
This seems vastly unwise to me as the world averts its eyes, brains and wallets to a DE-centralized
system of currency, where banks and their regulatory bodies go the way of viciously shorted companies
on a broken exchange.
Sincerely,
Karen Armstrong
***
DTC Filings
From: Clifford Waugaman <steelcitycliff@gmail.com> Sat 6/12/2021 1:48 PM
To: John Petrofsky
Mr. Petrofsky,
For a few weeks now a new measure was to be adopted, SR-DTC-2021-0005. Is there a reason why it is
not only not law but not available to even see the filing on the website? Us retail investors need answers
as to why the DTC is covering for naked shorters and not following the law? In the United States we are
SUPPOSED to have a free and fair market, and what you guys are doing goes against that on a daily
basis. If you wanted the U.S stock market to be the laughing stock of the world, you have definitely
succeeded so far.
Cliff

***

Page 93 of 115

SR-DTC-2021-005
From: David Stuebing <david.stuebing@gmail.com> Sat 6/12/2021 2:47 PM
To: John Petrofsky
Dear Mr Petrofsky,
I imagine you have received many emails like this one, but I am reaching out to ask when rule
SR-DTC-2021-005 will be published and enacted. My understanding is that it was pulled months
ago for formatting. My understanding of it's parameters also lead me to believe it is important
and would have a substantial impact on market fairness and transparency.

As a concerned citizen, please ensure that the rules that protect investors are in place as promptly
as possible.

Page 94 of 115
Thank you for your time,

David Stuebing
***

Hello
From: Vintagepokeshop <agberg1989@gmail.com> Sat 6/12/2021 3:48 PM
To: John Petrofsky
I have noticed that a high level member of the staff is also on the board of executives for citadel
and for one it’s an obvious conflict of interest but more importantly where is SR-DTCC-202105? It all seems these things are correlated to the bond market and this rule single handily will
prevent things in our economy from worsening. It is your duty to the public and American
people which you are supposed to serve to ensure these measures are put into place. Further
prevention of enforcing rules like these can be considered financial treason and as extreme as it
sounds even domestic terrorism. I have emailed the fbi as well as the White House and every
news station and committee I can get in touch with to bring this matter to the light. The fact is
this measure was taken down over a month ago for “reformatting” and it still has not been
released. We need to see action as the health of our markets literally relys on such.

Page 95 of 115
Best

AG
***

Concerns from an investor regarding SR-DTC-2021-005 & conflict of interests
From: Chris Mathews <christopher.mathews@mines.sdsmt.edu> Sat 6/12/2021 3:53 PM
To: John Petrofsky

Hello Mr. Petrofsky,

Please excuse this work-related email coming to you on a Saturday. I hope you're enjoying your
weekend, and that you don't feel the need to respond during your time off.

I was wondering if you could provide information regarding the timeframe for SR-DTC-2021005? From what I understand, it was pulled down over two months ago citing "formatting," with
the assurance that it would be re-filed in two weeks. Since then, however, there has been no
communication in regards to the rule.

Page 96 of 115
Additionally, I've learned that David Inggs, Citadel's Global Head of Operations is a member of
the DTCC's board. Given that the DTCC is the agency responsible for regulating Citadel and
other similar entities, it seems potentially catastrophic to have Mr. Inggs overseeing any part of
the DTCC given that his loyalties lie with Citadel first and foremost. I apologize if you're not the
correct person to raise this issue with, and would greatly appreciate it if you could forward this
email to whomever that may be.

Thank you for your time.

-~Chris M.
Senior Metallurgical Engineering student
South Dakota School of Mines and Technology

***
DTC-2021-005
From: Tj Carter <tjcarter6@gmail.com> Sat 6/12/2021 4:31 PM
To: John Petrofsky
Hello,
I am contacting you in regards to the 2 week delay of DRC-2021-005 that was delayed for formatting
reasons. We are well beyond the 2 weeks that was previously quoted, and now Melissa Lee from CNBC
has stated that naked shorting has been occurring within the market. I was just wondering if any
updates can be provided about DTC-2021-005 in effort to halt any illegal or suspicious efforts that
Melissa Lee was referring.

Page 97 of 115

Thank you,
TJ

***

SR-DTC-2021-005
From: Aaron Smith <uvfd06@yahoo.com> Thu 6/3/2021 3:12 AM
To: John Petrofsky
Hello,
My name is Aaron Smith and I am writing you in regards to why SR-DTC-2021-005 was
removed and if there is a timeline of when it will be implemented?
I have seen alot of news lately from CNBC to Fox coving naked short sales and how corrupt
this is. I also watched a great video from lawyer Wes Christian covering this corruption in great
details. It seems like SR-DTC-2021-005 when implemented would help curb these corrupt
behaviors. We all know that the smack on the hand and very minor fines do not help and it will
take more oversight to stop these illegal practices to keep Wallstreet fair for everyone.
Thank you for your time,

Page 98 of 115
Aaron Smith
***

DTC 2021-005
From: Otfried Büttner <otfried.buettner@freenet.de> Sat 6/12/2021 6:25 PM
To: John Petrofsky

Dear Mr. Petrofsky,

I humbly ask why rule DTC 2021-005 still hasn't been put in place without reasonable
objection.

If there's still editorial changes, or formating issues going on, I'd be glad to help You out,
completely free of charge of course. As far as I am informed that seems to be the only
issie you're facing, so if you do need my help doing your job, please contact me on this
eMail-Adress. Thank you so much in advance.

Page 99 of 115
Kind regards
Otfried Büttner, LL.M.
***

SR-DTC-2021-005
From: Alex Perliter <perliter@gmail.com> Sat 6/12/2021 7:17 PM
To: John Petrofsky
Hello,
I wanted to inquire about the status of the rule mentioned in the subject line, 005. I believe it has been
“reformatted” for over a month now. This rule is critical to protecting retail investors and needs to be
put into action ASAP, please let me know the status and cause for delay.
Thank you,
Alex

***
SR-DTC-2021-005 Update and Potential Conflict of Interest
From: Austin Kuhn <akuhn235@gmail.com> Sat 6/12/2021 9:10 PM
To: John Petrofsky
Hello,

Page 100 of 115
I hope this email finds you well. I was wondering if you could provide information regarding
the timeframe for SR-DTC-2021-005? From what I understand, it was pulled down a few months
ago citing "formattin," with the assurance that it would be re-filed in two weeks. Since then,
however, there has been no communication in regards to the rule.

Additionally, I've learned that David Inggs, Citadel's Global Head of Operations is a member of
the DTCC's board. Given that the DTCC is the agency is responsible for regulating Citadel and
other similar entities, it seems potentially catastrophic to have Mr. Inggs overseeing any part of
the DTCC given that his loyalties lie with Citadel first and foremost. If you are not the correct
person to raise this issue with, can you please forward this email to the appropriate
person/department or provide contact information for this department?

I appreciate your time and look forward to hearing from you in regards to these matters.
Thanks,
Austin Kuhn
***
005 republished
From: Mark Szabo <MSzabo18@yahoo.com> Sat 6/12/2021 11:55 PM
To: John Petrofsky
It would be great for the retail investors if 005 is republished as was promised. Hoping the playing field
is level at some point...
Have a great day!
Mark Szabo
206-910-8271

Page 101 of 115
Seattle United B10 Samba, SL G07 & G09 Blue Lakeside High and Middle School - Soccer Program
Director Boy's Varsity Head Coach

https://nam02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.lakesideschool.org
%2F&amp;data=04%7C01%7Cjpetrofsky%40dtcc.com%7C20e87411636f4b5558d808d92e1f06
f0%7C0465519d7f554d47998b55e2a86f04a8%7C0%7C1%7C637591533065848578%7CUnkn
own%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiL
CJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&amp;sdata=S%2BTqlvNki6zlvAV7T5WWpwtw7oDcbcxIE94zt6
80f5o%3D&amp;reserved=0
***

SR-DTC-2021-005
From: Jacob Romero <jpr2@icloud.com> Sun 6/13/2021 1:11 AM
To: John Petrofsky
Hello,
My name is Jacob Romero and I am writing to you regarding the recent filing SR-DTC-2021-005. As an
active investor in our domestic stock markets it’s troubling to learn about dangerous practices that
members of the DTC have enabled and purposefully participated in. In particular, abusive naked short
selling of securities are being traded on our stock exchange.
The DTC appears to be well aware of the extensive systemic threat this practice has posed to the
markets. It’s relieving to see the actions the DTC has taken to curtail this with recent regulatory filings
that are posted on the website.
Unfortunately, one of the most important proposals (SR-DTC-2021-005) to bring more transparency and
responsible behavior to the markets has been removed from the DTC filings page and the public has not
been provided any updates as to when the DTC will post the ruling.

Page 102 of 115

At this time I would like to ask, when can we expect this rule filing to return, and what specifically has
caused this filing to be taken down? This rule has the power to have enormous beneficial impact on the
markets, and in the interest of fair and free markets for all investors, I urge you to do your part to
achieve this. Thank you for all the work you've accomplished up to this point, and I will be eagerly
awaiting your response.
Kind Regards,
Jacob Romero
***

SR-DTC-2021-005
From: sampsonsmp <sampsonsmp@yahoo.com> Sun 6/13/2021 5:29 AM

To: John Petrofsky
Dear Mr. Petrofsky,

My name is Johnnie Sampson and I am writing to you regarding the recent filing of SR-DTC2021-005. As an active investor in our domestic stock markets, it has recently been troubling to
learn about certain dangerous practices that members of the DTC have been both enabling and
purposefully participating in. In particular, abusive naked short selling of securities traded on our
stock exchange.

The DTC appears to be well aware of the extensive systemic threat this practice has posed to the
markets, and it has been relieving to see the actions the DTC has taken to curtail this via the

Page 103 of 115
recent regulatory filings that have been posted on the website.

Unfortunately, one of the most important proposals (SR-DTC-2021-005) that would have served
to bring more transparency and responsible behavior to the markets has been removed from the
DTC filings page, and the public has not been provided any updates as to when the DTC will
post the ruling.

At this time I would like to ask: when can we expect this rule filing to return? And what
specifically has caused this filing to be taken down? This rule has the power to have an
enormous beneficial impact on the markets, and in the interest of fair and free markets for all
investors, I urge you to do your part in helping us all uphold this standard. Thank you for all the
work you've done up to this point, and I will be eagerly awaiting your response.

Kind Regards

Johnnie Sampson

***
Seeking update regarding SR-DTC-2021-005 filing
From: MR <mantas.ramanauskas1990@gmail.com> Sun 6/13/2021 3:41 AM
To: John Petrofsky

Page 104 of 115
Hello Mr. Petrofsky,

I'm Lithuanian citizen currently invested in US stock market.
Some of the price action in the securities i am invested raises questions of integrity. As i
understand for this particular matter SR-DTC-2021-005 was filed couple months ago but was
soon taken away for as i understand formatting issues.
I humbly ask You if You could clarify if this legislation will be passed and in what timeframe or
it is removed indefinitely.

Sincerely, Mantas Ramanauskas
***
SR-DTC-2021-005
From: Filip Hultqvist <filip.hultan@gmail.com>Sun 6/13/2021 5:30 AM
To: John Petrofsky
Dear Mr. Petrofsky, <BR> <BR>My name is Filip and I am writing to you regarding the recent filing of SRDTC-2021-005. As an active investor in our domestic stock markets, it has recently been troubling to
learn about certain dangerous practices that members of the DTC have been both enabling and
purposefully participating in. In particular, abusive naked short selling of securities traded on our stock
exchange. <BR> <BR>The DTC appears to be well aware of the extensive systemic threat this practice
has posed to the markets, and it has been relieving to see the actions the DTC has taken to curtail this
via the recent regulatory filings that have been posted on the website. <BR> <BR>Unfortunately, one of
the most important proposals (SR-DTC-2021-005) that would have served to bring more transparency
and responsible behavior to the markets has been removed from the DTC filings page, and the public
has not been provided any updates as to when the DTC will post the ruling. <BR> <BR>At this time I
would like to ask: when can we expect this rule filing to return? And what specifically has caused this
filing to be taken down? This rule has the power to have an enormous beneficial impact on the markets,
and in the interest of fair and free markets for all investors, I urge you to do your part in helping us all
uphold this standard. Thank you for all the work you've done up to this point, and I will be eagerly
awaiting your response. <BR> <BR>Kind Regards <BR> <BR>Filip

***

Page 105 of 115
[no subject]
From: Hannah Kells <hnnhklls@gmail.com> Sun 6/13/2021 7:13 AM
To: John Petrofsky
That's actually very similar to what I came.up with. Lmk what you think:
Hello,
My name is Hannah Kells and I am writing to you regarding the recent filing SR-DTC-2021-005.
As an active investor in our domestic stock markets it has recently been troubling to learn about
certain dangerous practices that members of the DTC have been both enabling and purposefully
participating in. In particular, abusive naked short selling of securities traded on our stock
exchange.

The DTC appears to be well aware of the extensive systemic threat this practice has posed to the
markets, and it has been relieving to see the actions the DTC has taken to curtail this via the
recent regulatory filings that have been posted on the website.

Unfortunately, one of the most important proposals (SR-DTC-2021-005) that would have served
to bring more transparency and responsible behavior to the markets has been removed from the
DTC filings page, and the public has not been provided any updates as to when the DTC will
post the ruling.

At this time I would like to ask: when can we expect this rule filing to return? And what
specifically has caused this filing to be taken down? This rule has the power to have enormous
beneficial impact on the markets, and in the interest of fair and free markets for all investors I

Page 106 of 115
urge you to do your part in helping us all uphold this standard. Thank you for all the work you've
done up to this point, and I will be eagerly awaiting your response.

Kind Regards,

Hannah Kells
***
SR-DTC-2021-005
From: jamespjacob727@gmail.com Sun 6/13/2021 9:09 AM
To: John Petrofsky
Dear Mr. Petrofsky, <BR> <BR>My name is James Jacob and I am writing to you regarding the recent
filing of SR-DTC-2021-005. As an active investor in our domestic stock markets, it has recently been
troubling to learn about certain dangerous practices that members of the DTC have been both enabling
and purposefully participating in. In particular, abusive naked short selling of securities traded on our
stock exchange. <BR> <BR>The DTC appears to be well aware of the extensive systemic threat this
practice has posed to the markets, and it has been relieving to see the actions the DTC has taken to
curtail this via the recent regulatory filings that have been posted on the website. <BR>
<BR>Unfortunately, one of the most important proposals (SR-DTC-2021-005) that would have served to
bring more transparency and responsible behavior to the markets has been removed from the DTC
filings page, and the public has not been provided any updates as to when the DTC will post the ruling.
<BR> <BR>At this time I would like to ask: when can we expect this rule filing to return? And what
specifically has caused this filing to be taken down? This rule has the power to have an enormous
beneficial impact on the markets, and in the interest of fair and free markets for all investors, I urge you
to do your part in helping us all uphold this standard. Thank you for all the work you've done up to this
point, and I will be eagerly awaiting your response. <BR> <BR>Kind Regards <BR> <BR>James Jacob
***
SR-DTC-2021-005
From: Robert Madonna Jr <robertmadonna@gmail.com> Sun 6/13/2021 9:17 AM
To: John Petrofsky

Page 107 of 115
Dear Mr. Petrofsky,

My name is Robert A Madonna Jr and I am writing to you regarding the recent filing of SR-DTC-2021-005. As an
active investor in our domestic stock markets, it has recently been troubling to learn about certain dangerous
practices that members of the DTC have been both enabling and purposefully participating in. In particular, abusive
naked short selling of securities traded on our stock exchange.

The DTC appears to be well aware of the extensive systemic threat this practice has posed to the markets, and it has
been relieving to see the actions the DTC has taken to curtail this via the recent regulatory filings that have been
posted on the website.

Unfortunately, one of the most important proposals (SR-DTC-2021-005) that would have served to bring more
transparency and responsible behavior to the markets has been removed from the DTC filings page, and the public
has not been provided any updates as to when the DTC will post the ruling.

At this time I would like to ask: when can we expect this rule filing to return? And what specifically has caused this
filing to be taken down? This rule has the power to have an enormous beneficial impact on the markets, and in the
interest of fair and free markets for all investors, I urge you to do your part in helping us all uphold this standard.
Thank you for all the work you've done up to this point, and I will be eagerly awaiting your response.

Kind Regards

Robert A Madonna Jr

***

Updates regarding SR-DTC-2021-005
From: Dylan <dylanbaptist1@gmail.com> Tue 6/15/2021 1:32 AM
To: John Petrofsky

Page 108 of 115
Hello Mr Petrofsky,

My name is Dylan Baptist and I am writing to you regarding the recent filing SR-DTC-2021005. As an active investor in the US stock markets (Living in Australia) I am troubled by certain
dangerous practices that members of the DTC have been both enabling and purposefully
participating in. More specifically, the abusive naked short selling of securities traded on
exchanges such as the NYSE.

The DTC appears to be well aware of the extensive systemic threat this practice poses to
markets, and it has been relieving to see the actions the DTC has taken to reduce this via the
recent regulatory filings that have been posted on the website.

Unfortunately, one of the most important proposals (SR-DTC-2021-005) that would have
provided more transparency and responsible behavior to the markets has been removed from the
DTC filings page, and the public has not been provided any updates as to when the DTC will
post the ruling.

In essence I am emailing you to ask when can we expect this rule filing to return? And what
specifically has caused this filing to be taken down? This rule has the power to have enormous
beneficial impact on the markets, and in the interest of fair and free markets for all investors I
urge you to do your part in helping to uphold this standard.

Page 109 of 115
Thank you for all the work you've done up to this point, I look forward to your response.

Sincerely,

Dylan Baptist

***

SR-DTC-2021-005
From: mats_astroem@yahoo.se ue 6/15/2021 5:10 AM
To: John Petrofsky
Dear Mr. Petrofsky,

My name is Mats Åström and I am writing to you regarding the recent filing of SR-DTC-2021005. As an active investor in the U.S stock markets, it has recently been troubling to learn about
certain dangerous practices that members of the DTC have been both enabling and purposefully
participating in. In particular, abusive naked short selling of securities traded on the stock
exchange.

Page 110 of 115
The DTC appears to be well aware of the extensive systemic threat this practice has posed to the
markets, and it has been relieving to see the actions the DTC has taken to curtail this via the
recent regulatory filings that have been posted on the website.
Unfortunately, one of the most important proposals (SR-DTC-2021-005) that would have served
to bring more transparency and responsible behaviour to the markets has been removed from the
DTC filings page, and the public has not been provided any updates as to when the DTC will
post the ruling.
At this time, I would like to ask: when can we expect this rule filing to return? And what
specifically has caused this filing to be taken down? This rule has the power to have an
enormous beneficial impact on the markets, and in the interest of fair and free markets for all
investors, I urge you to do your part in helping us all uphold this standard. Thank you for all the
work you've done up to this point, and I will be eagerly awaiting your response.

Perhaps it’s strange when investors from abroad contact you like this with an email similar to
those you have already gotten from investors from the U.S. But we are many that invest in the
U.S market, and deserve fair opportunities just as anyone else investing in the U.S market.

Best regards
Mats
***

Page 111 of 115
EXHIBIT 5

Struck-through, boldface text indicates deleted language
Bold and underlined text indicates added language.

Settlement Service Guide
***

Settlement Transactions
There are three main types of transactions processed through the Settlement system.

***
3. Collateral loans: The collateral loan service allows a Participant (the pledgor
Pledgor) to pledge Pledge securities as collateral for a loan or for other
purposes and also request the release of pledged Pledged securities. This
service allows such pledges Pledges and pledge Pledge releases to be made
free, meaning that the money component of the transaction is settled outside of
the depository, or valued, meaning that the money component of the transaction
is settled through DTC as a debit/credit to the pledgor's Pledgor’s and
pledgee's Pledgee’s DTC money settlement account. When pledging Pledging
securities to a pledgee Pledgee, the pledgor's Pledgor’s position is moved
from the pledgor's general free account to the pledgee’s account continues
to be credited to the Pledgor’s account, however with a system notation
showing the status of the position as Pledged by the Pledgor to the
Pledgee. This status systemically which prevents the pledged Pledged
position from being used to complete other transactions. Likewise, the release of
a pledged Pledged position would move the pledged position back to the
results in the removal of the notation of the Pledge status of the position
and the position would become pledgor's general free account where it
would then be available to the Pledgor to complete other transactions.

Collateral Loan Program

***

About the Product
The Collateral Loan Program allows you to pledge Pledge securities from held in your
general free account as collateral for a loan or for other purposes (such as Letters of
Credit) to a pledgee Pledgee participating in the program. You can also request the
pledgee Pledgee to release pledge Pledged securities back to your general free

Page 112 of 115
account. These pledges Pledges and releases can be free (when money proceeds are
handled outside DTC) or valued (when money proceeds are applied as debits and
credits to the pledgee's Pledgee’s and pledgor's Pledgor’s money settlement
accounts). A Pledgee may, but need not be, a Participant. Only a Pledgee which is a
Participant may receive valued pledges Pledges.

***
Pledges to the Options Clearing Corporation
A Participant writing an option on any options exchange may fully collateralize that
option by pledging Pledging the underlying securities by book-entry through DTC to the
Options Clearing Corporation (OCC). If the option is called (exercised), the securities
may be released and delivered to the holder of the call. If the option contract is not
exercised, OCC validates a release of the pledged Pledged securities, which are then
returned to the Participant's general free account.

***
Release of Deposits with Options Clearing Corporation on Expired Options
OCC automatically releases securities deposited with it to cover margin requirements on
an option contract when the option contract expires. The securities are then allocated
to your general free account. Notification of the released securities is received via the
Collateral Loan Services functionality in the Settlement User Interface or automated
output.

***

Shared Control Accounts
About the Product
Shared control accounts are available as an alternative to “agreement to pledge”
arrangements.
Background
When a Participant pledges Pledges securities to the pledgee account of a pledge
Pledgee at DTC (sometimes called a “hard pledge”), the securities are under the sole
control of the pledgee Pledgee. Only the pledgee Pledgee can redeliver or release the
securities. Pledgee accounts continue to be available at DTC.
Shared control accounts are available at DTC as an alternative to agreement to pledge
Pledge (sometimes called “agreement to deliver”) arrangements. A pledgee Pledgee
has control over securities delivered by a Participant to the Participant’s shared control
account at DTC since the pledge Pledgee has the ability to redeliver the securities

Page 113 of 115
without further consent by the Participant. Until the pledgee Pledgee redelivers the
securities, the Participant has the flexibility to redeliver or make substitutions for the
securities without obtaining the pledgee’s Pledgee’s release of the securities.
Shared controls are separately identified in DTC’s Reference Directory. Participants
interested in establishing a shared control account should contact their Relationship
Manager.
Procedures for DTC Shared Control Accounts
The following procedures are an addition to DTC’s Procedures for Pledgees.
1. Any Participant may establish a shared control account at DTC and may
designate any DTC pledgee Pledgee to be the pledgee Pledgee for that shared
control account. A Participant may deliver securities (or other financial assets) by
a free pledge Free Pledge from any of its DTC accounts (the “original account”)
to its shared control account in order to grant a security interest or other interest
in the securities to the pledgee Pledgee. The shared control account is an
account of the Participant and is identified with a separate account number from
any other account of the Participant. A Participant may establish multiple shared
control accounts, but only one pledge Pledge can be designated for each
shared control account.
2. Except as modified by these procedures, the operation of a shared control
account is identical to the operation of a DTC pledge Pledge account and all
DTC procedures applicable to pledge Pledges accounts are applicable to
shared control accounts. No deliveries vs. payment Deliveries Versus
Payment, pledges vs. payment Pledges Versus Payment, or physical
deposits can be made to a shared control account and no deliveries vs.
payment Deliveries Versus Payment, pledges vs. payment Pledges Versus
Payment, or physical withdrawals can be made from a shared control account.
A Participant should not deliver securities to another Participant’s shared control
account. In the instructions for a delivery of securities to a shared control
account, the mandatory hypothecation code field should be completed in the
same manner as it is for a Pledge made without the use of a shared control
delivery to a pledge account. The DTC fees and charges for a transaction
involving a shared control account are the same as the fees and charges for a
Pledge transaction that does not involving involve a pledge Pledge account.
The DTC monthly account usage charges applicable to a shared control account
are charged to the Participant. The DTC reports and statements to the
Participant and the pledge Pledge for a transaction involving a shared control
account are the same as the reports and statements for a transaction involving a
pledge Pledge that does not involve a shared control account.
3. As with a pledge account, voting Voting rights on the securities credited to a
shared control account are assigned to the Participant. Cash dividend and
interest payments and other cash distributions on such securities are credited to
the original account. Distribution of securities for which the ex-distribution date is
on or prior to the payable date or in which the distribution is payable in a different
security are also credited to the original account. Any stock splits or other

Page 114 of 115
distributions of the same securities for which the ex-distribution date is after the
payable date are credited to the shared control account.
4. The securities credited to a shared control account cannot be designated as or
included in the collateral for any obligation of the Participant or the pledgee
Pledgee to DTC. DTC has no lien or other interest in any securities credited to a
shared control account.

***
Pledgee’s Agreement
AGREEMENT as of [Date], between The Depository Trust Company (Depository Trust)
and [Pledgee Name] (Pledgee).
WHEREAS, Depository Trust maintains a centralized securities depository within which
transfers and pledges of securities are effected by book entry methods;
WHEREAS, Pledgee desires to have the benefits of a Depository Trust account in order
that it may be designated from time to time as a pledgee of securities within the system;
and
WHEREAS, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, Depository Trust is willing to
provide Pledgee with a Depository Trust account.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants
herein contained the parties
hereto do hereby agree as follows:
1.
So long as Depository Trust makes available to Pledgee a Depository Trust
account, Pledgee agrees to pay Depository Trust the charges and fees from time to time
in effect for Depository Trust applicable to Pledgee and to participate in Depository Trust
in accordance with such Rules and procedures as may from time to time be established
by Depository Trust, provided, however, that Pledgee may terminate this agreement at
anytime, upon written notice delivered to Depository Trust, accompanied by a written
demand for delivery of the certificates representing the securities, or for transfer by book
entry of the securities, then being held by Depository Trust for Pledgee’s Depository
Trust account and payment of any charges of fees then owing to Depository Trust.
Immediately upon such notice and demand Pledgee’s participation in Depository Trust
shall cease. Pledgee shall thereafter be under no obligation to pay any further charges
or fees referred to in this paragraph and Depository Trust shall promptly arrange for
delivery of Pledgee’s certificates representing the securities, or for transfer by book entry
of the securities, then being held by Depository Trust for Pledgee’s account, such
delivery or transfer to be at Pledgee’s expense.

So long as Pledgee shall maintain a Depository Trust account, Depository
Trust, upon the pledge to Pledgee of securities held by Depository Trust for the
account of any depositor in Depository Trust, will make appropriate entries on its
2.

Page 115 of 115
books to indicate the pledge of transferring the securities from the account of
such depositor to the account of Pledgee and shall maintain such securities in

the account of with a notation that the securities are pledged by the depositor to
the Pledgee until instructed by Pledgee to release such securities to the account
of the pledgor, to deliver such securities to the order of Pledgee or to transfer

such securities on the books of Depository Trust to the account of a depositor in
Depository Trust other than the pledgor.

3.
Pledgee agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Depository Trust, its officers,
directors, employees and agents against any and all loss, liability, damage, cost and
expense, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, arising out of any act or omission by
Pledgee, or any of its employees or agents, or the Pledgee’s or any of its employee’s or
agent’s error, negligence or fraud relating to Pledgee’s Depository Trust account.
4.
This agreement and any transactions hereunder shall be governed by and
construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
5.
This agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the
parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
6.
This agreement shall be effective upon the date when it is executed by both
parties hereto and a fully executed copy hereof has been delivered to the box of the
Pledgee maintained by Depository Trust on its premises or has been deposited in the
United States Postal Service, with postage thereon prepaid, directed to the Pledgee at
its address specified below.

***


